## I. Planning and Development Committee

Chaired by Bill James

### A. Call to Order

Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:45 p.m.

Director Hoy added that the meeting is being recorded with both audio and video.  He stated the video recording is on behalf of Director Menten.

Directors Lasater and Solano were absent.  Directors Archuleta and Deadwyler left the meeting early

Staff Present:                       Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Chessy Brady, Ivan Broce, Gina Callahan, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Lee Cryer, Nate Currey, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Janet Huhn, Kate Iverson, Jim Kelley, Mitch Kuharski, Russ Larson, Adrian Mabry, Michael Nabhan, Ravi Pulakurthy, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Bill Sirois, Yong Song, Dana Steele, Errol Stevens, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch, Susan Wood

Others Present:                    Michael Carruth, Michelle Desmarais, Whitney Dodd, Matt Frommer, Graciela Garcia, Erik Gates, William Gross, Katlyn Lonergan, Vinod Malwatte, Harsha Maragh, Rachel Meier, Katie Rogers, Jennifer Shiver, Julie Stern, Mike Ulmet

### B. Recommended Actions

There were no recommended actions.

#### 1. 16th Street Mall Transitway Rehabilitation Project Update

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, stated that Susan Wood would be updating the Board on the 16th Street Mall Transitway Rehabilitation Project.

Susan Wood, Planning Project Manager II, commented that RTD allocates over $1 million annually for the maintenance of the 16th Street Mall transit way pavers which includes cleaning and replacement.  She stated that the original design was by I.M. Pei and Associates, and was designed to represent a diamondback rattlesnake.  She noted that the original design lifespan was only for 30 years, and it is now at the 34-year mark.

Susan Wood remarked that federal funding was used to build the mall and it is also an established historical area.  Therefore, RTD has to provide environmental documentation and will also conduct a Section 4(f) Analysis to determine alternatives that are prudent and feasible.

Susan Wood stated the purpose of the project is to identify and evaluate alternative options for the 16th Street Mall, but there is also a need to increase safety for both transit vehicles and pedestrians so as well.  She noted that a technical working group was established this year to evaluate feasible alternatives in a three step screening process.  The alternatives under consideration are:

- No Action

o        This would continue the maintenance program in its current form and the 30-year lifecycle costs are $42-$43 million.

- Rehabilitation (Reconstruction)

o        The Pilot Paver Repair best practices would be extended and the 30-year lifecycle costs would be $30-31 million.

- Full Concrete: One Color

o        The granite pavers would be removed from the transit way and replaced with concrete while the sidewalks and center median retain the granite pavers.  The 30-year lifecycle costs would be $8.2-$8.3 million.

- Full Concrete: Two Colors

o        The granite pavers would be removed from the transit way and replaced with colored concrete and stamped in a new design while the sidewalks and center median retain the granite pavers.  The 30-year lifecycle costs would be $8.5-$8.6 million.

- Hybrid: Single Color Concrete

o        The granite pavers would be removed from the transit way and Red center pavers will be reset in the existing diamond pattern and surrounded with single color concrete.  The Sidewalks and center median will retain the granite pavers.  The 30-year lifecycle costs would be $9-$9.1 million.

Susan Wood remarked that a number of outreach opportunities were held over the summer.  She added that the Denver Post also conducted a poll, and the comments ranged from those who favored keeping the current design, to those who would prefer a more cost effective option.  She commented that there is an additional study underway by the City and County of Denver concerning the use of the mall, including the Mall Shuttle routing and configuration.

Susan Wood stated that staff will continue to work with our stakeholders to determine a path forward.  In December, staff should present the Board with a recommendation, and in mid-2017 to mid-2018, the alternative analysis and environmental documentation will be completed.

Director Folska commented that the Board should wait to get further feedback from our stakeholders before money is spent to improve the quality of the mall.

Director Bagley asked if the mall reconfiguration plan included removing the median.

Susan Wood stated that the Capital Programs group working with RTD’s constituents will determine the safest and most usable configuration.

Director Lubow asked if the technical working group could challenge and or overturn RTD’s final decision.

Susan Wood stated that the technical working group does not have the ability to tell RTD what to do, but staff is asking for them to provide input for the best option.

General Manager Genova said this is a difficult task, and it will be challenging if the RTD decision is not popular.  He added that this is a topic that has a lot of emotion and passion and there are a lot questions, particularly regarding funding, that will arise.  While the process is technically in the Board’s hands, it could be challenged by the public.

Susan Wood added that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) will also have to approve of the plan.

Director Hoy asked about the technical working group and asked for a breakdown of its members.

Susan Wood stated that members of the technical working group come from: The City and County of Denver, Industry Representatives, the State Historic Preservation Office, and the FTA.

Director Menten remarked that her district is pro-change, and they would like the mall updated to a more cost effective and safer design.

##### a. 16th St  Mall Overview_RTD Board of Directors_11-1-16_final

#### 2. 29th & Welton TOD Pilot Project Update

Kate Iverson, Manager of Transit Oriented Development, indicated that RTD had acquired property from the City of Denver in 1993 for a total of $97,000.  The property, located in the Five Points neighborhood, was originally purchased to provide parking for local retail businesses after the loss of the Welton St. parallel parking lane.

Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Development, stated that originally, the community was concerned about parking being lost.  RTD worked with the City of Denver to purchase the property, but there have not been any parking studies done on this site, and currently, it is mainly used for light rail parking.

Kate Iverson commented that this was set up as a pilot site to test new roles for TOD, as this property is located within a residential neighborhood.  Recently, the community has asked for the removal of the parking lot in order to activate the site for affordable housing.  She added that staff has already met with industry professionals to discuss the best way to develop the property.  She noted that staff’s intent tonight is to get feedback from the Board, and staff will return at a later date with a recommended action.

Director Bagley asked about the size of the parcel and what the potential revenue might be from the sale of the property.

Bill Sirois stated it is 19,000 square feet.  Kate Iverson added that based on comparable sales, it is in the $800-$900K range.

Director Francone asked what staff defines as affordable housing.

Kate Iverson indicated that it is more about housing affordability, and a price point that is becoming more and more scarce.

Director Francone asked how many people park in the lot on a daily basis.

Bill Sirois remarked that there are 50 spaces, but utilization can vary based on the day.

Director Deadwyler said the parking lot is used often, since parking in that area has been reduced over the years.  She added that the City of Denver is building a 280-unit complex two blocks away and she would rather use this lot for something else.

Bill Sirois commented that staff has reviewed various options, but the City is the land use authority, and their objective is to use this space for residential purposes.

Committee Chair James said if there is to be a lengthy discussion of strategy, he recommended the Board discussing that one on one with staff.

Director Walker stated what staff has presented is in line with what he has heard from other people in the Five Points community, and from the City.

Director Folska inquired about the light rail station at 29th and Welton, and its future use.

Bill Van Meter indicated that as of now, there are no plans to re-activate that station.

Director Sisk remarked that he shares some of Director Deadwyler’s concerns, but the Board should not sell the property until after the construction defect laws have been changed.  He stated we would leave a lot of money on the table if we were to sell it today.

Director Menten commented that she does not want to see RTD in the Real Estate business.

##### a. PandD_Nov1_29thWelton_FINAL

#### 3. Proposed Guidance for Current RTD Parking Program

Bill Sirois remarked that there has been a fair amount of conversations about parking for the past year and a lot of concerns were expressed.  As a result, staff has formed a multidisciplinary parking working group to assess issues and develop a policy and guidance for Board consideration.

Committee Chair James stated this is an opportune time to discuss this topic.

Director Folska recommended that staff read, The High Cost of Free Parking, by Donald Shoup.

Director Lubow asked if money from parking goes towards constructing the unfunded corridors.  She said staff should re-evaluate parking fees and naming rights.

General Manager Genova stated that parking revenues would bring in about $10 million each year.  He added that staff does not have a recommendation at the moment, but the funds that would be generated would be applied to smaller projects.

Director Menten asked if RTD’s parking structures could be used for cell phone towers.

Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, stated that it would depend on the area and the structure.

Chair Tobiassen commented that one guiding principal should be to discourage single occupancy vehicles.  He stated that only 17% of the ridership park at the Park-n-Rides and we need to focus on the majority that do not.  He added that we do not discuss what it would take to replace all of the parking structures that we have.  Nine Mile, for example, will cost millions of dollars to replace.

Director Anderson remarked that safely has been on her mind lately and the Board needs to enhance the safety for patrons and their belongings at the Park-n-Rides.

Director Bagley stated the revenues that are gained from the various Park-n-Rides should be returned to the corridors from where it came.  He commented that the revenues should be used for maintenance costs.

##### a. Parking Policy Update 11.1.16Final

#### 4. Bylaws and Expense Policy Update

Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, indicated that the goal tonight is for the Board to provide feedback to staff regarding the Bylaws and Board Expense Policy before they are approved in November.  He said the five general areas are: Housekeeping, Committee Meetings, Legal Compliance, Bylaw Amendments and Board Staff Management.

Director Anderson asked if there was a Code of Conduct that applied to the Board.

Rolf Asphaug stated there is a regular Code of Conduct, and a statutory Code of Ethics that applies to all government officials.

Director Lubow said she does not like increasing the requirement to a full majority.  She stated that even though Robert’s Rules say to use ten, it also has language to modify the majority if needed.  She also stated that the proposed changes to the FasTracks committee seems like a demotion, and she suggested that it always be at the front of the combined meeting.

Director Francone commented that the Board Office Staff should be treated like the rest of staff, but she asked who will manage that department.  She stated that it should not be the General Manager, otherwise the Board Office staff will not be able to maintain confidentiality.

Director Bagley stated that the Financial Administration and Audit Committee is the number one priority for the district, and they should always go first.  He added that the committee structures should be changed, as the rotations make no sense.

Director Sisk highlighted that staff needs to be careful with the word shall.  He added that he would like to see some reference to the taping of meetings and making them available to the public.

Chair Tobiassen explained that the Executive Committee has been working on this for the past few months.  He said that for the supervisor of the Board Office Staff, he would propose that the Board Chair in conjunction with the General Manager and the Executive Committee choose the appropriate manager.  He added that the Bylaws should not define the manager by title or name, as the person chosen today might not be the right person three or five years from now.

Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors, indicated that the Board Expense policy was being updated to clarify all of the policy elements, including updating technology standards, updating in and out of state travel, and professional affiliations/membership subscriptions.

Director Sisk stated that RTD should not pay for any spousal expenses at local events.

Director Francone added that the Board has asked other departments to cut their budgets, so the Board should do so as well.

Barbara McManus remarked that Director Menten had asked what the Board spent for local and travel expenses for 2015 and to date for 2016.  That amount was $90,339.35 to date.

Director Menten stated the Board expenses are a matter of public record and they deserve to know what is being spent, and what exceptions are being made.

Director Walker said he is happy this is being done.  He stated that when he used to sign checks, he noticed a few Directors spent a lot of money and there were times that he did not agree with their spending.

Barbara McManus explained that the Executive Committee would have to make the decision to reduce the Board’s travel and local expense accounts.  She added that the account limits can change over time for various reasons.

Chair Tobiassen commented that this was eye opening, and he did not realize the Board Expense Policy was so vague and flexible.  He stated that tightening the policy to be consistent is a good thing, and if staff pushes back on a particular expense, they can notate a specific section in the policy.

Committee Chair James remarked that the Board Expense Policy, along with the Bylaws are clearly areas that need some work.

##### a. Proposed RTD Bylaw Revisions

##### b. 2016-Bylaw Amendments -  Board Report Proposed Clean-

##### c. 2016-Bylaw Amendments - Board Report Proposed Redline -

##### d. 2016-Board Report Accepted Review BOD Expense Policy (2)

##### e. 2016-Board Report Redline Review BOD Expense Policy (1)

### D. Other Matters

Director Bagley remarked that the Passenger Code of Conduct should come back before the Board next month.  He stated that he would like staff to discuss the agreed upon language for the utilization of the high blocks at the light rail and commuter rail stations, specifically for those traveling with luggage.

Rolf Asphaug indicated that he could not recall the specific language, but he would get back to the Board with that information.

General Manager Genova commented that individuals with disabilities have the priority to use the high blocks.

Director Menten added that she recently went on a tour of the W line in a wheelchair, and maneuvering around inside the train is another issue.

### F. Adjourn

Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 9:30 p.m.