2024-10-17
Executive Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good morning, everyone. This is Erik Davidson, Chair of the RTD Board speaking. It's
Thursday, October-- oh. Sorry. I think may have started before we started streaming. Good morning,
everyone. This is Erik Davidson, Chair of the RTD Board speaking. I will now call the Thursday, October
17 executive committee meeting to order. We are convened as of 11:30 AM Mountain Daylight Time.
I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you're recognized to
speak. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely
via Zoom and are audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of
the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting, we
are providing communication access real-time translation also referred to as CART.
Anyone who would like to access this CART service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like to access a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I will now call for the
roll of committee members. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson speaking. I am also present. We do have five of our
committee members present. I see, for the sake of the record, we are also joined by Directors Tisdale and
Ruscha. Thank you for joining. Director Ruscha, you've raised your hand. Do you have a question,
please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir. Just for the good of the order. I was wondering if we would have CART
available for our executive session. If so, I missed the email. Is that something staff could look into?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Sure. Yeah. The plan is to have CART for executive session as always so that information
will be communicated.

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. And if it was all ready, would you mind just sending it forward?
Wasn't able to find it. Appreciate it. And I apologize for interrupting. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. I'll now move to public comment and we'll
open up to anyone from the public who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in
the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and
have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand on Zoom or press star nine if you're dialed
in by phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board
Office the email address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Mr. Kroll, at this time, I am seeing one hand
raised. So I'm just going to go ahead and note and we'll ask for your assistance in calling on folks. Before
calling on folks, I'll just remind everyone that staff will unmute you when it is your time to speak. If you are
dialed in, you can press star six to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, you can submit your comments in writing and those can be submitted to the RTD Board Office
at the email address rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. I'll ask speakers to please begin their remarks by
stating their names and then each speaker will have three minutes to speak. With that, I see the first
speaker in our queue on Zoom is Mr. Bob Dinegar. Please go ahead. You are now recognized for three
minutes.
BOB DINEGAR: Thank you. Can you hear me?
ERIK DAVIDSON: We can.
BOB DINEGAR: Great. So good morning. I am a candidate for the RTD Board District A and therefore
take a keen interest in all matters before the Board, as I have for a number of years, but particularly with
regard to the requested agenda item Director Orientation, Onboarding, and Continuing Education Policy.
And as a eight year member of the Board of The Colorado Chapter of the United States Distance
Learning Association, the last two of which I spent as president, I'm somewhat familiar with the topic at
hand and aware that always, when making decisions about these types of things, the first fork in the road
when it comes to is, is the training to be synchronous or asynchronous? In other words, real time
interactive or content that you can access online at your own time and potentially be tested and graded
on.
And I would like to suggest that we keep in mind that folks working schedules are busy to begin with, and
obviously with this document being only about 20 pages out of a Board packet of 800 plus, I'm glad I
caught it. I think that it would be wise to consider the amount of time being asked of the new Board
members and also to look forward to future trainings so as to capture the content in an asynchronous
manner. I'm not saying don't do synchronous as well, but to just maximize the efficiencies and perhaps do
that within the context of an LMS, a learning management system.
And keep in mind that folks going forward, like, to his credit, Director Guzman, who works full time in the
retail business. Time is precious and he sacrifices his and the new incoming Board members will need to
do that to a fair extent. But this is limited, as I see it, to Monday through Friday. I don't know if it's 8:00 AM
or 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM time frame. So I'm going to strongly advocate that you consider asynchronous as

a part of the mix to capture the content and be able to use it going forward, because software is the gift
that keeps on giving. I'll stop there. Thanks for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, sir, for the comments and for joining us here. I'm not seeing any other
Zoom participants. Mr. Kroll, can you confirm that's the case? And do we see any phone participants?
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. I do not see any
further attendees present who have indicated a desire to provide public comment. And in anticipation of
your subsequent question, we did not receive any email comments in advance of this meeting that were
intended as public comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Thanks for the anticipation there and for stating that for
the record. All right. With no other participants in the queue and all comments being noted, we will close
the public comment period at this time. We're going to move into recommended actions. Before we do,
we have recommended actions, one today, and discussion items.
I just want to note that we have a lot to cover and need to use the limited time well. I am going to aim for
us to get through the items on our agenda except for the executive session by 12:30, if possible. At that
time, we will be entering executive session. I'll just ask to table if there are remaining discussion items
around that time. So obviously there's a little bit of flexibility there, but I just would like to use the time
efficiently.
I wanted to let everyone know of that target before we get going. All right. With that being said, there is
one recommended action this afternoon. As a reminder for the committee staff and anyone watching or
participating in this meeting, all action items that are passed by the Executive Committee, even if they are
unanimous, will be included on the Board agenda under recommended actions so that the full Board will
have an opportunity to discuss the measure presented.
The action under consideration for the committee this morning is for Director Orientation, Onboarding,
and Continuing Education Policy. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached Director
Orientation, Onboarding, and Continuing Education Policy. Do we have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear the movement as Catlin, the second as Bouquet. I'm going to open up the floor
just to see if there's any additional comments from Board Office Executive Manager Jack Kroll, Secretary
Guzman, if they'd like to comment at all further on this policy.
Once again, I'd like to thank you for the work and thank you very sincerely for bringing this to the
committee last month as a discussion item when we had a robust opportunity to get a look at this and
then provide any subsequent feedback prior to this coming to a recommended action. So with that, Mr.
Kroll, Secretary Guzman, I'm happy to yield to whoever would like to speak. Please go ahead and present
anything you would like to.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Jack? Do you want to?
JACK KROLL: Sure. I'd be happy to, Director Guzman. So we received some very good input from both
Director Sloan and Director Ruscha that are reflected in the revised policy before you for your

consideration. So I thank them for their input. Some of it related to adding some additional items during
the orientation process. Notably, really a recap from the Board Office of major policies and resolutions
that the Board has passed.
And also emphasizing that there needs to be significant support from staff throughout all of the training
and onboarding of new Directors. A couple other things to note. We have begun some initial
conversations internally with the Board Office around the timing of all of these things. We really want to
have a calendar to present to the Board and to new Directors as soon as we possibly can. There is a
significant amount, as you have reviewed this policy of trainings and other items to be covered, likely well
in excess of 40 total hours, if not more.
There was some concern, I will note, around the specific timing in section seven. This is packet page 16,
bleeding into page 17. My recommendation on this front is to leave it as is. There is a significant amount
of training to cover throughout the course of onboarding a new Director or, in this case, what will likely be
seven new Directors, and having the ability to clearly set expectations in the policies as to when these will
occur I think is important for our ability to get not only staff scheduled, but also Directors scheduled.
What I will say, and it doesn't go so far as to being an entirely asynchronous system here. All training
sessions, though, however, according to the policy, will be recorded and kept with the Board Office for
subsequent review. And it's not lost on me that there is additional improvements that could be made to
make training materials more asynchronous and interactive.
But that's a huge lift at this juncture. It's definitely not off the table for now, but in the meantime-- or it's
definitely not off the table in the future. In the meantime, however, know that the Board Office will keep
record of all of these things and make them available at any Directors request at any time so they can
review the materials. And with that, I have nothing further to add.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: May I? Thank you. So a couple of things to keep in mind with this. One, it is three
distinct parts. There is onboarding. There is orientation. And there is training. The training has two distinct
parts, subject training by topic and matter and then continual training for Directors, which could be both
within the agency for all of us to get together and have a study session, for example, or outside external
training at APTA Conference or the Latinos in Transit Conference or the WTS Conference.
So I want to remind everybody, we're trying very carefully to be specific about those three distinct parts
working together to create a policy that will prove fruitful for everybody. One thing, Jack, that we may
want to list under the last section where we put the previous policies is our policy regarding staff time and
usage. And because this is so heavily reliant on staff, I think that that's really the impetus for securing the
regular business hours of staff who will be doing these trainings as part of that consideration for doing
that within that time frame of their regular business day and not extending it past that.
It's not always going to be perfect and there is plenty of wiggle room. It's at the discretion of the Chair to
change those times in coordination with the General Manager CEO and the subject matter expert that will
be doing that training. But we do need to have a plan going forward and be able to calendar things that
works for all parties, not just the Directors and not just the staff.
And so I think that's when the rubber meets the road-- forgive the pun. But really, to be able to plan things
out accordingly so we are not asking too much of staff time or too much of the Director's time and giving
things up. It makes sense to do this during the regular run of business. And I think that was the

background behind that. So I just wanted to address that because we have a policy we're bound by and
how we are to cooperate with the agency personnel on matters like this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for your feedback. I did not hear anything else from anybody, so I'm excited
to get more feedback from you if you have it. Thank you very much, Secretary. I'll go to some questions
I'd like to for the sake of the record that Director Sloan has joined us as well in the meeting. I'll start and
go to Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Guzman and Jack Kroll for all the
work on this. I think it looks really good. My only comments are outside of it. One of them is that I think
last year there was some really good information at the ones that I was able to attend that would be good
for ongoing Directors.
So as you're preparing for these-- and the staff puts in a lot of time preparing for these. As you're
preparing for these, if you can give current Directors a little synopsis of how that might help them and
encourage them to attend. I think that that could be really helpful. And then the other thing that I think is
helpful and I was happy to see that you have some external focused sessions, but at various times in the
past we've met with the state demographer.
We met with the State Budget Committee. We've had our lobbyists come in. I think we've done that once
recently. But I think keeping the Board up to speed on all of those things happening in our world around
us by adding some of those either into the training sessions or into study sessions is a really important
piece of that at this point. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Other questions. Mr. Kroll, you raised your hand.
Please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Just real quickly to respond to Director Guissinger's feedback related to keeping the
Board up to speed on current topics and initiatives in the broader context of RTD and the environment in
which we operate.
If this is approved, the Board Office does have some clear direction in the policy to survey Directors and
SMEs on staff to see what are the big issues and topics that the Board should be educated about from a
continuing education perspective for the subsequent year. And hopefully we can capture some of those
through that. Obviously, the context that we operate in changes every day, and we won't maybe
necessarily have real time feedback on that. But we can look around the corner a little bit, see what's
coming, and plan accordingly.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Dr. Ruscha, a question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Just a comment. I'm looking at packet page 11 because it has the
edits in it, and that's where I found it. Just disregarding the hours of 8:00 to 5:00, Monday through Friday.
So just taking into effect-- taking into account, excuse me, what folks have already said, including the fact
that current Directors might attend some of these trainings. Like last year, some of the trainings we had
were new or significantly updated from the year or two years prior.
I think we often say we'll try something, and if it doesn't work, we can go back and amend it and change it
later. But it is a really heavy lift for us to go back and do that. And I would just offer that we strike that
sentence entirely and recognizing we're all adults. Let the Board Office staff, the Chair, and new Directors
sort out times.

Because I do think it's a bit inequitable, whether it's the incoming new Directors or the ones after, to
suggest that, in order to be effective at your job or to even be a Director or run for this position, that you
might need to take 10, 12, or 15 hours of PTO. And just further, I know it does say unless explicitly
requested by the Chair. That's putting the onus on a person who might not have the privilege of daytime
flexibility to make a case to the Chair.
And I just feel we're old enough and adult enough to sort that out. And to put something so prescriptive in
this document, while well-intended and it might work out, I think it could cause some consternation in the
future. So just in the spirit of actually being considerate of others and also looking at our Board Operating
guidelines and recognizing that we have a diverse body and we always will, I would suggest that we just
strike that sentence and trust that folks can work it out.
I would also add that there are other parts of this document that make very clear we have an expectation
of all Directors and new Directors and their onboarding, that they are present, that they show up, and they
take initiative. And I just, again, don't want to give the wrong impression for those who don't have the
flexibility of others in day time. And I have not spoken to Secretary-- excuse me. Treasurer Bouquet on
this, so I'm not calling him out, but I'm just thinking back when I was a teacher, it would have been so hard
for me to be a Board member.
So he's a super hero for managing all this and being a coach too, but I wouldn't have been able to
onboard 8:00 to 5:00 properly last year and the year before, if I still had a teaching schedule. And so I just
want to-- that's just one example, but most folks don't have this flexibility. So to keep it equitable for new
Directors and current Directors-- and I didn't always have this flexibility when I was onboarding-- I would
just ask that we strike that sentence and work it out amongst ourselves. I think we're all professional and I
think the Board Office can handle it as well as the incoming Chair. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Director Sloan, please. Oh. Director Sloan, you're on mute.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Now I'm visible and audible. I think Director Ruscha has made a good point that both
sides need to be flexible on this. And there was something in there about being in person present, and I
think there needs to be flexibility to be online as well as the timing of these programs. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the comments. And again, this will come before the full Board
as a recommended action. So I do encourage, if there are-- no matter what the result here, if there are
recommended changes too, those can come forward as amendments. Secretary Guzman, is there
anything you want to comment on with respect to that topic, given your extensive work on this? If not,
that's fine.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am grateful for the feedback. I think it is something we can consider. But there is a
failsafe, which is that the incoming Chair will have the privilege to work with the CEO to make a change to
the scheduling if and when it's necessary. If we are adults, then the Board can work together on that with
the incoming Directors and we can adjust as necessary. I think for facilities' sake, this is not overly
prescriptive, but it does set some guidelines about when we want to try and get work done.
And if that doesn't work for everybody, then we have to have that conversation. But we did make a
commitment to have this completed and turned over to the state and the OSA process. And so the
commitment from staff is they also have jobs to do and we're relying on their expertise and we need to
rely on them, but we cannot overburden staff who will be presenting on these matters.

And so I don't want to take-- I'm trying to take a step back, a big step back, and not make this just about
from the Director's view but also be considerate and kind and respectful of the staff who will be working
with us to our benefit for the service of the agency and to our constituents. And so I think that's one thing
that I would like to keep in mind. But we can certainly discuss this offline and continue on with the
meeting. Jack, you had your hand raised. Was there something you needed to?
JACK KROLL: Just-ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Kroll, go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Oh, thank you. I'd just very quickly say that there were significant delays last year in the
scheduling of certain trainings due to Board member availability and staff availability, and so we're really
trying to get out in front of this and set clear expectations in advance so that we're not 10 months in and
still trying to pin everybody down for when they can make a meeting. That's part of the reasoning for
including something like this and setting the expectations.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. Thank you, Secretary. Director Ruscha, your hand is
still raised. Is that just from before?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sir, I had a clarifying question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And I had discussed this with Mr. Kroll and I just wanted to-- maybe he
could address this. I think it might be captured in this new version, but I didn't want to make an inference
without guidance. I had noted that we don't have a book of resolutions or actions that is accessible, easily
accessible, and often just our Board website can be clunky or there's a broken link or the like.
And so I was wondering if that is-- because we tell people to be familiar with new policies and/or most
relevant things and resolutions. Is that something that is on a calendar to be addressed so that our
current and new Directors have access to that? I felt like it was alluded in this document but I wasn't sure.
And if I'm off topic, please feel free to call me out of order, Mr. Chair. I don't want to converge two things.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Yeah. I'll open up the floor, Mr. Kroll, if you want to comment
briefly on that, and then we will move to vote. Mr. Kroll, any comments on that topic?
JACK KROLL: Yeah. That is captured on the top of packet page 15, Review of Prior Board Resolutions,
Actions, and Key Policies. The Board Office will provide Directors, so all Directors, with the resource to
review previously approved Board resolutions, major actions, and key policies.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. All right. Thank you again for the discussion on this. I
want to also just briefly acknowledge, thank you, General Manager Johnson, for partnering in with the
team, with Directors Whitmore and Guzman and the Board Office, Mr. Kroll, for working on this. We know
that this does take a tremendous amount of time, and a lot of the materials that were recorded were
excellent last year. I think we'll be even better this next year.
So thank you-- or I should say two years ago. So thank you for the commitment on that and for the
partnership between staff and Board developing this. With that, I'm going to go ahead and call for the vote
of committee members. Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none, we have five aye votes, zero

no votes, and zero abstentions. Thank you very much. The motion will pass. We'll now move on to our
October Board meeting agenda review.
Before I ask for a motion, I would just like to note that in consultation with the Board Office Executive
Manager Jack Kroll, as well as several Directors, including indicating that the Operation Safety and
Security Committee meeting, that we've noted that there were amendments to the resolution in support of
the RTD Vision Zero Initiative.
So therefore I have moved that item to be last on the recommended action list for the draft Board agenda,
and it is not under unanimous consent and will be discussed at the Board meeting in anticipation of
amendments coming forward. Additionally, I want to note that our October Board meeting will be
particularly eventful as we will be recognizing the winners of the 2024 Light Rail, Snowplow, and Bus
Rodeos. Quite a few people to acknowledge. So just wanted to make sure to highlight that for everyone.
All right. With those things being stated about the October Board meeting, can I have a motion to approve
the Board agenda as outlined at this time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved. Secretary Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And a second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. I heard Guzman and Guissinger as the second. Thank you. Any discussion or
questions regarding the Board agenda? OK. Seeing none, are there any no votes for moving forward on
the agenda? Seeing none, that has five aye votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions. Motion will pass.
Look forward to seeing you all at the October Board meeting. Going to be an eventful one, as we stated.
That will move into discussion items. I do see, First Vice Chair Catlin, your hand is raised.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Sorry. This is, I know, really picky. But I noticed in our 849 page
packet that there is something that may need to be corrected, and that is on packet page 735. It's a list of
contacts. Listed is Dr. Joel Fitzgerald for an emergency contact, and that probably should be adjusted
since it's no longer valid. Thank you. That's all I had.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for noting that, First Vice Chair. We'll be moving forward with the October
agenda, but I'll ask the Board Office to work in with staff to take a look at that and any adjustments that
will need to be made and any procedures accordingly for the Board meeting. Thank you. All right. We are
moving into our discussion items.
There are four, as I noted. There are a few we could table if we are tight on time. However, the first item,
make sure we get through the first and the second here. Both are somewhat related. We are joined by
Mr. Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer, for both of those. The first being the Monthly
Government Relations report for October 2024. Mr. Davies, thank you for joining us. I'll hand the floor
over to you to please present.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair, members of the committee. My name is Michael Davies,
Government Relations Officer. I have a brief Government Relations report for you all, starting at the
federal level. As noted in the written report, funding for federal grant programs through USDOT was
extended until December 20 through a continuing resolution that will likely be addressed by Congress
after the general election on November 5.

Also noted in the written report was RTD City and County of Denver, City of Aurora, and the Federal
Transit Administration celebrated on October 4 the grant, the Small Starts Grant through the FTA's
Capital Investment Grant Program for the East Colfax BRT project. That was a great event. In addition to
the award, it was also a celebration of the groundbreaking.
Moving over to the state side of things. I largely just want to make sure-- and this was mentioned in last
month's Government Relations report. But included in the written report are a couple of summaries of bills
passed by the TLRC. As you all may recall, the TLRC does take action on a number of bills in the interim
to be drafted for next legislative session starting in January 2025. And there are three of those bills that
do impact RTD or are relevant to RTD.
The first one, increase transportation mode choice, reduce emissions is the title. That was approved by
the TLRC and largely directs CDOT to do a statewide assessment on the percentages of what mode
people are choosing for travel, whether that be bike, walking, single occupancy car, transit, et cetera, et
cetera, and then sets forth some direction for not only just transit agencies but also for cities to work with
CDOT and align with goals that CDOT develops through that statewide assessment of mode choice.
Two, there's a railroad investigative report confidentiality bill that is largely changing statute with regard to
the Colorado PUC and keeping accident investigations confidential. And so there's a bill that's addressing
that and largely making those not confidential, removing the confidentiality language that's currently in
statute for the PUC on accident investigations with regards to railroads.
And then lastly, there is a paratransit service bill that was approved by TLRC that directs transit agencies
that provide paratransit services to coordinate with local emergency management. That's one
requirement. It also has a requirement with regards to ensuring fare collection is comparable to fixed
route systems. And then lastly, it does establish a committee to really look at and study paratransit
statewide and make some recommendations based on any findings that that committee comes up with for
the legislature to consider.
Overall, no concerns from RTD staff with regards to any of these bills. Just want to make sure that the
Board and committee is aware of that. Lastly, not included in the written report but with regards to state
matters, this last Monday, October 14, the Legislative Audit Committee held a hearing. One of the items
in that committee meeting was potential legislation for next year's regular session.
And one of the items that the Office of the State Auditor is recommending in partnership with RTD on this
is changing the definition-- and this was one of the recommendations in RTD's 2024 audit, and that is
changing the definition of operating expenses with regards to a specific section of RTD's statute that
stands now.
RTD agrees with this recommendation, and it's largely just aligning that definition with the way that those
numbers, operating expenses are reported to the National Transit Database, the way that APTA takes
those numbers and puts them into the APTA Factbook, things like that. It's just aligning the state definition
with how RTD and really all transit agencies report operating expenses. Again, RTD's in support and
appreciates the partnership with the Office of the State Auditor on that.
The Audit Committee did vote unanimously to move forward with drafting that. We'll likely see a draft of
that legislation at another Legislative Audit Committee in December. And so RTD staff will keep the Board
up to date on those actions. And then just lastly, on the local front, RTD did hold a region-wide
subregional service council meeting, and it was an opportunity for RTD to engage our local municipality

staff with regards to not only bills that happened last year in the state legislature and how those are being
developed and how those are working with RTD and how we're participating in those processes.
And really, it was an opportunity to cover that and take any questions from municipal staff that participate
on the subregional service councils. With that, that concludes my report and happy to answer any
questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Davies, for the report and update. I'll start with questions
from committee members and then move to Board members. Treasurer Bouquet, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, thank you very much, Mr. Chair and Mr. Davies. What was the timeline on the
PUC transparency bill?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you. Thank you, Director, for the question. So the timeline is that it will be
drafted or it is drafted and approved as a interim bill. It will just be introduced into the regular session
come January 2025. So that bill language does exist now and you can see it on the TLRC website. I'd be
happy to follow up and provide you that language. But nothing will happen this year. This will all be for
next legislature starting January 2025 to address basically between January and May of next year.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Yeah. I know the agency and the staff probably-- I didn't hear we're going to
take a position on it, rather or not, but they're going to remain pretty neutral. I think it might be one thing to
consider as Board Directors to look into that one specifically and potentially have us as a discretion as a
Board to take a stance on it.
I think that might be a potentially good idea. So that might be something that we as Board members have
a discussion. So Chair Davidson or Mr. Kroll, happy to reach out about that. But I think that's one we
should look into and potentially take a stance as a Board and just say yes or no on it. So thank you very
much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer. I will flag that one as we get closer here to session and drafts,
something that we can review. I'm sure that we'll come back to this committee in report as we get closer.
So thank you. I flagged that one for follow up. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thanks, Michael. That's a helpful report. On the first bill from the
TLRC that you mentioned that CDOT does this goal setting. My recollection, and I only looked at it briefly,
was that they were looking at CDOT setting goals and then working with transit agencies and local
governments on hitting them. And I think it's important that we be involved in that goal setting. Is that part
of what they're envisioning or is that something we need to take a position on? That we're not just
involved in how do you hit the CDOT goals for transit but in what those should be.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, certainly. Thank you, Director Guissinger, for the question. And I think you
raise a great point. I think it's certainly staff's intent to work with CDOT, as we always do, on anything that
the state or any department or the state is doing that may impact RTD. And from my understanding of the
way the bill is drafted, I mean, it certainly gives direction to CDOT to establish a process. Of course, if
there's a public process, RTD will participate in that and make comments to align implementation and
make sure that all of this works out.
That's one of the things that's outlined in the legislative program is to really work with departments on rule
making and things like that. So it's certainly staff's intent to work with CDOT on that. If we see areas

where there is conflict, certainly want to make sure that we comment and participate in how CDOT is
putting that together.
We'll also do this through CSTA as well, the Colorado State Transit Association, and they'll be heavily
involved in this process as well. So I think it's just one more avenue for us to participate and make sure
that what CDOT is doing is going to work for not only transit agencies, but as I mentioned, it impacts cities
over 25,000 people as well as the MPOs will be involved in the potential goals set by CDOT on this
matter.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. First Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I concur with Director Guissinger. I think we need to be more than just a
reactionary body, but that we need to be more proactive in shaping what these criteria are. I guess I'll just
leave it at that. I just think we need to be part of shaping those targets as opposed to reacting to them and
commenting on them. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair Catlin. And Second Vice Chair Guissinger, I
see your hand up. Please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Just, that may mean, in addition to being part of the comment that we want
to get involved in what that legislation actually says in terms of they set a lot of goals. The greenhouse
gas goals and a number of other things. I'm not sure if our staff have been involved with that, but I think
it's an important place for us to be. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Yeah. Agreed. And I think Mr. Davies and I
had a chance to communicate just yesterday about opportunities for additional communication from
RTD's perspective. I think there's probably some things that can factor into how we communicate with
stakeholders around some of the challenges and opportunities that we see. So, good. I'll flag that as well
for follow up. I'll go to Board Directors, not seeing other committee members hands raised at this time.
Director Ruscha, please, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Just a few questions-- a few comments. If we could separate bills out
that-- separate the bills from those that are incoming, because I think those need separate and specific
votes when those are introduced, similar to what Treasurer Bouquet referenced regarding the PUC bill,
from the bills that we want to run ourselves. And those may need separate votes or could be done as a
whole.
If we're going to approve a legislative documents, I think that those need to be separated. And the Board
does have to take a position when things are drafted. And I also just might feel picky, but in the chart that
you have, Mr. Davies-- which I understand we've used this same chart for a while. I think it would be
helpful to separate not just what I just mentioned but also add another column. So we have a topic, a
description, and I think our position or impact is noted in a description.
But I think we could add, like another column that would be staff's feedback-- which isn't necessarily a
Board position, but we do want your feedback-- on if we should support, amend, be neutral, monitor, that
kind of thing, similar to the reports that you share with us. Does that make sense just? So that we're very
clear as to what potential legislation or current drafted legislation says and what staff's feedback is on

that. And that would, I think, help inform the Board when we make our decisions and provide better
clarity.
And then finally, I would just note we do have a CDOT liaison from the Board, and that's been a thing for
many years. And they should also be utilized in public affairs when we are engaging with CDOT. And I
would also think that would include even FRPR because they are housed under CDOT currently or they
get CDOT support.
And then finally, I would just add it would be helpful-- and I don't know who this would come from-- if we
were to receive regular written updates regarding any negotiations with Front Range Passenger Rail,
preferably at meetings with specifics. But at the very least, in descriptive memos, because that also is part
of government affairs and those potential agreements would have a huge impact on RTD, not just right
now, but possibly in perpetuity. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And I just took down some of the notes there. I think the
CDOT liaison being as it relates to the CDOT goals and so forth. I believe some of your comments on the
table are to the next discussion item, the Legislative and Government Relations program. Is that correct,
when you were referring to the Table Director?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. Yes, sir. I was sort of mixing the two things, but thank you for being gracious.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you. I've got those noted down here. I see General Manager CEO
Johnson, your hand's raised. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Ruscha, for your
comments. But just as a point of clarity, I believe Director Ruscha had said FRPR, Front Range
Passenger Rail, is housed within CDOT. That is not correct. Front Range Passenger Rail is a separate
entity that was created by the state legislature, and they are not housed within CDOT. So I just wanted to
ensure that I qualified that for everyone assembled. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, and thank you, General Manager. When I said housed, I just sort of
meant colloquially in that they receive a lot of CDOT support in terms of staffing because they wouldn't be
able to function fully independently. And so thank you also for that clarification, but I understand what you
are saying and I just wanted to provide that context.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director. Thank you, General Manager. Not seeing other hands raised on
this first discussion item of our Government Relations report, Mr. Davies, thank you very much for
providing that and for the update. I'm sure that, as we did last year, there will be discussion of these bills
as the drafts come together and the committee and full Board will have the opportunity to go through and
review all of those bills in more detail. So thank you for your work and for your continued communication
to this body as we head into that season, that session.
We're going to move to our second discussion item. This is also being presented by Mr. Michael Davies.
This is our 2025 draft Legislative and Government Relations program update. We are receiving this as a
discussion item, not as its recommended action yet. Mr. Davies, thank you for your work on it.
I would encourage Directors to review that, ask clarifying questions here, and certainly feel free to make
subsequent comments and recommendations to Mr. Davies for consideration, which I'm sure would be

appreciated prior to our consideration of this as a recommended action. With that being stated, Mr.
Davies, I'm going to open the floor up to you again to please present the Legislative and Government
Relations program.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair and members of the committee. Again, Michael Davies,
Government Relations Officer. So with the 2025 Legislative and Government Relations draft report,
wanted to bring this to you all, as mentioned, as a discussion item this time. This discussion item follows a
memorandum sent by General Manager Johnson on August 7 to the entire Board soliciting feedback on
this document as staff developed that.
So again, welcome the opportunity to provide this as a discussion item this month with the intent to bring
this back as an action item in the following month. Just to quickly go through. A few changes. Not a lot
from last year. But with regards to the strategy of how staff will do this-- and this largely comes from a
comment from Director Guzman last year, which was really to call out and make sure that the Board is
aware that staff has the full intent to utilize the Board, that the Board is a tool in the toolbox to how we
advocate. We advocate alongside the Board.
And so we wanted to try to put that in as a specific addition in this year so that you all know that we as
staff at RTD want to utilize the Board's relationships with elected officials and make sure we're all rowing
in the same direction to ultimately be successful at whatever item we're trying to advocate for. With
regards to other changes, under the state section, subsection D, this is related to penalties associated
with assaulting transit workers. Wanted to add some language in that section.
This item was approved by the Board. Didn't gain much traction in the legislature last year. Doesn't mean
it's still not a priority for RTD as well as our employees at RTD. So bringing that item back but also adding
some language to potentially just add some more opportunities and avenues to explore this at the state
level.
And that is language really associated with trying to leverage some state resources and experts at the
state level that are very familiar with criminal justice issues and see if there are other ideas and external
stakeholders that can come up with additional deterrence measures that may be helpful with regards to
reducing or avoiding assaults on transit workers. So that is the language that's added in that subsection D
under the state section.
And then moving on, the only other really big change in terms of language is subsection E under the state
section, and that is with regards to really just changing the language from last year with regards to zero
fare for youth to make it align with how the program is currently funded and how long our funding from the
state from last year's session will last. And ultimately, we will need another appropriation from the state to
be added to the current grant program if RTD is to utilize future grant awards for the zero fare for youth.
So just changing that language to align with the current implementation of the program. Outside of that,
all of the other goals remain. At the federal level, there is no new surface transportation authorization
currently be developed. That has probably another year before that really kicks into high gear and will be
something that will largely be addressed by a new administration.
Yeah. And then just to address Director Ruscha's comments. Staff's intent with the legislative program is
to always add bills that the Board does take positions on. This is just a general guideline of initial priorities
that staff wants to focus on. Other bills that come up, for example, bills that I mentioned that were passed
by the TLRC.

When those bills get build numbers and are introduced formally, it's absolutely RTD's intent to work with
the Board to see, do you want to take a position? Are there changes, are there amendments? Work that
through the normal process. And if the Board wants to take positions, we'll absolutely add them to the
legislative program. Director Ruscha, your comment with regards to noting support positions and staff
feedback, happy to incorporate that as well. So with that, that ends my comments and happy to take any
questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Davies. I'll go to questions first from the committee and then
open up to other Directors. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. Davies, this looks awesome and I appreciate the shout out, but also
moreso the willingness to work with us as advocates with you on the agency side from the Board side. I
think that's a valuable partnership that can go far. I do have one set of questions. I don't need the
answers right now but something for everybody to consider. I know CEO Johnson will definitely have this
at her fingertips.
But having had conversations with several senators, one in particular asked me about data and reported
data on the attacks on frontline workers beyond what goes to the National Transit Database. And I
understand that there's some nuance in what we have locally and what gets reported up because of what
the requested information is from the FTA on this matter and the USDOT's expectations.
Further to that, what has been charged, what has gone to trial, and what have outcomes look like, if any
of that has happened locally within the RTD? And that information could lead to a greater conversation
about what this type of legislation looks like from the criminal justice minded senators.
And so I'm putting that here, one, so it's on the record that actually delivered the message, but two, as a
heads up that would be something that we would want to make sure that we speak about with a few
senators to get them some information ahead of time. And they will have some pointed questions and
feedback for us as well. And that work is being done. So it's not being lollygag done but just offering that.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Mr. Davies or General Manager CEO Johnson, any comments
at this time?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Director Guzman, for your
comments. Of course, we do have information relative to assaults on transit workers because we do track
that and they're categorized in a certain way. And then more specifically, Michael Davies and I just had a
conversation yesterday relative to data and what might be advantageous for representatives that are
interested in working with us and perhaps convening a task force to discuss this item. So I just wanted to
acknowledge that as well, that we're aligned in relationship to our thinking might be done to help create a
more welcoming transit and work environment for our frontline colleagues. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson. I'll note, for the sake of the record,
we were joined by Director Dishell throughout the discussion. Thank you for joining us. I again will
conclude with committee members here and move to other Directors. I did have just one question. It's
related to this topic on item D in the table on supporting legislation to enhance penalties.

First of all, really appreciate the additional language. I think this is a good-- it sounds like there's an
appetite at the legislature from what we heard on September 25, that the TLRC, particularly from
Representative Boesenecker, for example, in asking some more detailed questions of what do we
understand, what actually works here. I know that there's similar conversations happening in other
industries.
One that was also a topic in last year's legislative session was on the health care side of things with
frontline workers in health care. A question I have, Mr. Davies-- and it may just perhaps warrant follow up
or just maybe rhetorical, but if you have any feedback, I'd be curious at this time. Is there an opportunity
for cross-industry and interdisciplinary collaboration in terms of how we information share what we
understand on our frontline workers versus other industries?
If the legislature is taking on a broader look at this. Are there those opportunities? Are there any
comments you have at this time? Again, if not, that's OK. But Mr. Davies, any thoughts around that?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Thank you, Chair, for the question. I think, simply put, yes, there are
opportunities to collaborate with other industry association groups that have similar goals from a policy
direction and can absolutely pursue that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you, Mr. Davies. Yeah. I think that's a good opportunity, even for this Board
then as well, in working with other policymakers in those industries. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just real quick. Also the union's part in this. They spoke right after we did and the
union president addressed this very issue, albeit in a different way. But I think that their voice, if you're
going to look at doing some sort of meeting of them, we need to loop them in on all sides as well. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for noting that, Secretary. Yes, that was great testimony after us. Agreed.
All right. Move to other Directors at this time. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I see in that item or paragraph D there's additional language we didn't
have in previous years about calling in stakeholders, and I appreciate that. One thing that's just tripping
me up is that we talk about enhanced penalties, but we're not saying what. What is it is staff looking for?
Are you looking to felonize something?
Just some more specificity before we vote on this, just because it is so very broad and we are talking
about-- we're talking about Title 18, we're talking about criminal justice. And so I would just like to know
what that means or what the target is. It doesn't mean that's where the bill would fall, because
negotiations happen. But I would like to know what would that introduced bill look like. A key part of that is
going to be the what.
So if it's rolling back some legislation that was passed, say that if it's seeking something new, if it is the
same penalties as, say, for example, enhancements regarding a police officer. Whatever it is, just more
specificity, I think, would be helpful for the Board so we know what we're signing on to. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comment, Dr. Ruscha. Not seeing other hands raised, and along
those lines, I would encourage all Board Directors that have feedback, clarifications, questions, any of
those to please reach out to Mr. Davies, to General Manager CEO Johnson to communicate those before
we bring this forward as a recommended action. So thank you very much, everybody, for the comments
and questions on this. Mr. Davies, thank you for preparing this, as always, and walking us through it.

And once again, since I've been here, I've seen improvements in the way we take this in terms of you
really brought a process for us of improving the program and proceeding out from that. So thank you for
that level of organization and continued refinement. OK. Seeing as that it is 12:31 at this time, we'll
conclude that second discussion item.
Unless there's any objection, I would like to forego the next two discussion items. I do want to make a
brief comment on that and then I'll just check and make sure there's no objection on this. There was a
third discussion item today that is a proposed bylaw amendment to update descriptions of the executive
and performance committees. Appreciate Mr. Kroll and General Manager CEO Johnson for working
together on these.
I would ask if we do forego this discussion that Directors please review those. Some of it represents just
some kind of cleaning up and updating of current practice, but some of it also is clarifying of roles and
responsibilities pursuant to things we agreed with from the Office of the State Auditor's audit with respect
to Performance Committee and its auspices. So I think there's some good thought that's in there. This
would come forward to this committee as a recommended action if we forego this today.
But I believe we can solicit feedback from Directors, should you have any concerns or ideas. Likewise,
the fourth item, similarly, is with respect to the 2025 meeting calendar, another thing that probably
warrants Directors taking time to really look through it, consider whether this is where we think it should
be, and providing that feedback directly to the Board Office.
And as always, welcome to include myself on those communications so I can help pull together all of
those. So I think those things can be addressed with some offline review by not just this committee but all
Directors prior to them being recommended actions. We will send out emails on those items to remind
Directors specifically to take a look and provide that feedback. With all this being stated, is there any
objection to foregoing the third and fourth discussion item today?
OK. Seeing no concern around that, we will go ahead and do that. Mr Kroll, I can work with you and we
can put together just some emails to Directors to make sure that we do go ahead and get that feedback
prior to recommended actions. Thank you. Director Tisdale, please go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And just very briefly, relative to one of the agenda
items that we have for the Board meeting, specifically concerning the PTASP, I did want to point out in
this environment here for this meeting that I would appreciate if perhaps staff might have someone go
through the PTASP.
I have gone through it in detail and there are at least 30 pages with significant typos, incomplete phone
numbers, incomplete headings, misspellings and so forth. And I don't know that we want that going out as
our formal product.
So I can send to Mr. Kroll the enumeration of pages where I have found those, but I would appreciate it if
we would make a note before going final on that, that somebody take the time to look through and to
correct the typos. And especially for things important phone numbers. For example, in the emergency
manual, it says in the event of fire, dial 7, 2, blank, blank, blank, 5, 6, or something like that. Gosh, in the
event of fire, I'd want to have a full phone number. Anyway, those are my thoughts. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I'll consider that another matters, and we'll-- thank you for
your offer to send those pages and typos that are noted to Mr. Kroll. And I would just ask, Mr. Kroll, we

can coordinate and then coordinate with General Manager CEO Johnson and her team accordingly as to
how we would make any necessary adjustments prior to vote at the full Board. Thank you, Director
Tisdale. All right. On these lines, are there any other matters to discuss at committee today? OK. Seeing
none, I'd like to just note that our next meeting-- sorry. Director Ruscha, please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm so sorry, sir. I'm not part of this committee and you've been very gracious with
me. It was a big meeting. I just wanted to relative to the Vision Zero action item. We do have an
amendment, and we worked with General Manager-- or excuse me, GM CEO, Ms. Johnson on that. I'm
not sure if it's sitting in the Board Office email. I think it is.
But I would just ask that we get that disseminated as quickly as possible. And then I do believe-- and I
don't know if there's a case law on this, but just general best practice and something that has always
been advised by CML and others is that when you know you have an amendment coming or some other
document or a memo that would inform a vote, that we put it in the published packet for the public for
transparency because it is part of a meeting agenda.
And so I would just kindly ask that we include that in the packet before it goes out, because we know it's
coming. And I thought this would probably be the appropriate forum to bring it up, but again, thank you,
Mr. Chair, for your grace and I'll yield.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director. Yes. And thank you for noting that amendment, which
will be coming forward at the full Board meeting. And thank you to Directors and staff involved in aligning
around what that would look like. Other matters? OK. Seeing none, I'll note that our next meeting of this
committee is going to be Thursday, November 21.
We will have a full agenda that day. We will be looking towards the approval of the 2025 legislative
program, the appointment of audit committee members-- and again, ask everyone to keep an eye on the
emails, both those that have already occurred and those forthcoming on that important topic, as well as
the approval of bylaw amendments with respect to Executive Committee and Performance Committee.
And then we will be having a discussion related to our 2024 meeting accessibility pilot.
So with that being stated, we will now move to the final portion of our agenda, which is an executive
session. This executive session is pursuant to Section 24-6-402(4)(b) CRS to receive legal advice and
section 24-6-402(4)(e) CRS for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to
negotiations regarding a potential amendment to the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer's
employment agreement.
In a moment, the committee will meet in executive session regarding the GM CEO's employment
agreement. I would like to append this motion to move into executive session to state that the Executive
Committee meeting will be deemed adjourned after it adjourns into executive session. For public
transparency and clarity, this means that once the committee moves into executive session, the main
meeting will be adjourned.
At this time, I will entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following. Pursuant to
Section 24-6-402(4)(b) CRS to receive legal advice and section 24-6-402(4)(e) CRS for determining
positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations regarding a potential amendment to the
GM CEO's employment agreement.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved.

ERIK DAVIDSON: And a second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second, Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. Bouquet as the movement, second is Guzman. Any opposed? All right.
Seeing none, that will pass. We will move into executive session. Please allow us several moments to
switch over all Directors. Please use your other executive session links. Please reach out to the Board
Office with any issues. We will join over there, and once we confirm the technology is set up, we will
continue. Thank you very much. Have a great day.

