2022-05-19
Executive Committee
VINCE BUZEK: I'm going to call the Executive Committee to order. It is May 19, 2022 at 12:00 PM. I would
respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself once you are recognized to speak. I will
now call the roll. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Sloan. You're on mute. Oh, there you go. Are you here?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much. And Treasurer Troy L. Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I am here.
VINCE BUZEK: Excellent. So we have everybody from the Executive Committee here. We also have
Director Tisdale appearing. Thank you for being here, Director Tisdale. I don't see any other Board
members. We have a number of staff members, including Ms. McManus, Ms. Snyder, Ms. Annette Rhodes,
Mr. Smith, Ms. Parrish, Ms. Hunter, Ms. Snell and Mr. McKay. Thanks all for being here. Director Tisdale, I
see your hand raised.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I do note for the record that I just heard from Director
Kate Williams that she is on the call as an attendee, and apparently is not able to get on as a panelist. So
she may be able to do that momentarily and will be joining us. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Thanks for that clarification, and Director Williams, I see a phone that just popped up.
That's probably you. So welcome. OK I'd also like to note-KATE WILLIAMS: Can you guys hear me?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, we hear you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Can you hear me now?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, hear you now. Thanks for being here.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll be quiet.

VINCE BUZEK: OK. Thanks very much. I'd also like to note that Debra Johnson, our General Manager and
CEO, on behalf of RTD is attending the 2022 WTS International Conference and Board Meeting in Seattle,
Washington. So she won't be here for this meeting. Next, we're going to move on to public comment. I'd
like to open the public comment period to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle
your mute settings. Please bear in mind by participating in the process, you are being recorded. If you do
not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has
documentation or reference materials for the Committee, or if any member of the public would like to submit
written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the following email address,
RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com.
And during the public comment, the Committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers
should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes to speak. I
understand there are no emailed comments pending. And Ms. McManus, do we have any speakers waiting
to speak?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. I see three attendees plus Director Williams, and no hands raised.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. With no participants in the queue, I will then go ahead and close the public comment
period at this time. I think the first matter on our agenda is the May Board meeting agenda review. Is there
a motion to approve the May agenda Board meeting for the May 24th meeting?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved. I'll second.
VINCE BUZEK: I have Catlin first and Whitmore second. OK, any discussion on the agenda? We've got
some other discussion items that may relate back to the agenda, but is there any discussion on the agenda
at this time? Let's see. I have a question for Second Vice Chair Catlin. There's an ad hoc committee. It is
planning to present a discussion item. Is that going to be moving forward at the Board meeting?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, because we will not have had another ad hoc committee meeting prior to that.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, great. OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: They're still negotiating the contract with Reuben Brothers.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, good deal. Just wanted to get clarification on that, because we had that written in as
a discussion item, and we can take that out. Also, Michael Davies is not here today to give his report, but
he's going to be giving his report at the Board meeting during the General Manager CEO section of the
agenda reporting. So we'll have that moving forward next week.

Any other comments or questions regarding the Board agenda for next week? Are there any no votes to
move this forward? Seeing none, we'll move that forward with the exception, I think, or the amendment that
we'll take out the ad hoc committee meeting discussion item for next week. So that moves forward with five
yeses and zero no votes. There are no discussion items on the agenda for today, and we have a few other
matters that I'm going to move into. And the first is the report of Director activities during the Board meeting.
Director Tisdale had previously noted that it would be beneficial if Directors reported out on their activities
during the monthly Board meeting. And in the past, we've done this in a couple of different ways, right. We
did it during other matters, or the Chair would often recite the Members, Directors' activities, and open it up
to them for further comment. So I'd like to know whether we should be adding this back to the Board agenda,
and if so, in what fashion. So I'm going to open this up for discussion among-- Director Tisdale, I'd like to
open the floor first to you to talk about the history in your bringing this forward again.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Chairman. I appreciate this opportunity. In the past, we did
have, as you just described, the opportunity for Directors to, in effect, blow their own horn, but also to
demonstrate to the public exactly what kind of engagement this elected Board of Directors has with each
constituency and with other important partners to the RTD.
Losing that communication certainly makes the meetings a little bit shorter, but I think it takes away a
valuable communication opportunity for education of the public relative to what it is exactly that we do. And
what I did during my terms as Chair, because I was trying to streamline the meetings a little bit, was I
secured from each Director a list of what their engagements had been. And in rapid-fire fashion, I would go
through that to make sure it was on the record, but then as you just said, open it up for each of them to
expand upon that.
Prior to that, our practice had been, during "other matters," for Directors to come forward and give that
report. I think it is beneficial, and I appreciate the Executive Committee's consideration of restoring that
opportunity for communication. Thank you, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that report and that information. I agree. I think it's important to reinstate this in
some fashion to our agenda. And I see first Vice Chair Guissinger. I'll recognize you to speak. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know Marjorie or Melanie might be able to help my memory on this, but I think
one of the documents we went through even said that is the purpose of other matters. And I'm not sure we
want to be that specific, because I think other matters can include a lot of other things, or old business or
whatever it was. Maybe it was the one from Ralph that talked about customs. Does that ring a bell, Melanie
or Marjorie?
VINCE BUZEK: I remember that. I think it was old business, new business when we used to have those on
the agenda, and what comprised those elements of those things.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. So I mean, I'm fine with that. I think Doug has a good point, you know. So
adding that back in as an option for people, I'm fine with. But I think other matters can be brought up too
against coming up, things like that.

VINCE BUZEK: OK. Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, I really appreciate Doug's bringing this forward, and I like the way he streamlined
the activities of the Director. And yet it did give an opportunity to showcase how busy people were. I kind
of appreciate it as being a separate agenda item, and making sure when we continue to go over these
documents that you'll hear about later, that that is changed so that it does have a distinct place on the
regular agenda.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Any other comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: And oh, I see Kate Williams. Oh, I don't see you, Kate. I hear you. Director Williams, go
right ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I'd also like to point out that in the past, the Directors used to provide the
information on their public activities to the Board Office. And in my case, that helped because I have
recently-- we have not been doing that-- gone to a public event and found that there was RTD staff. They
were surprised to see me. I was surprised to see them. And sometimes, that can be awkward.
So we used to provide to the Board Office where we were going to be at a public meeting, and so they
could then share that also with staff if there was planning necessary around that appearance. So I'd like us
to look at that being part of the Board Office function again. And I guess we'd have to ask Ms. McManus
how she feels about that. But that was a very effective way of doing what we're talking about.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments. Ms. McManus, I see your hand's raised. Go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I mean, I would agree with that. I think it's important just for open meetings. We
don't know. There hasn't been a lot of outside activities over the last two years, and so I would like to
reiterate that if you are going to community events, that you do let the Board Office just in the event that
other Directors may want to join, and we can get it on the two-week calendar so that it's posted
appropriately.
And then also to Director Tisdale's comments, in the past, we have asked Directors that travel to different
APTA conferences or Rail Evolution, or WTS or whatever events externally travel-wise, that they would
bring back their experience and conversations as to what was learned for the rest of the Board to share in
that knowledge. So I just want to add that to being an important part of the community, knowing what the
Directors are doing.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that input. And Director Williams, to your point, I will mention in my Chair's
report for the next couple of Board meetings a reminder to Directors to engage with the Board Office, to let
the Board Office know when they are attending outside events, as those are occurring more and more
frequently as not only COVID diminishes, perhaps, but also as the summer progresses and you get more
of these community type of activities Directors tend to go to. So I'll make sure I mention that.

With regard to the item at hand, the Director activity report during the Board meeting, I would like to see
that as a separate and distinct line item in the agenda right above other matters. I know it kind of puts it off
a little to the end, but I think that might be a good place. It used to come up in other matters, and that new
business, old business used to be kind of in that same spot. So anybody have any ideas or thoughts on
that? Thump up, thump down. Thump up. Thump up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Can you hear me still?
VINCE BUZEK: I hear you, Kate Williams. Are you showing your thumbs up?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I am. I don't know how to unmute myself. I know how to hit star 6 to speak.
VINCE BUZEK: We know that.
[LAUGHTER]
KATE WILLIAMS: Can anybody tell me how to stop in between? No, nobody knows.
VINCE BUZEK: Nobody knows?
KATE WILLIAMS: Is it like star 7 something to be muted again.
VINCE BUZEK: Star 6 toggles you between your mute settings. It's in my script.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ah. OK. Yeah, so before you go on, that's a thumbs up. But I want to point out that I, for
example, at this moment, am at the Tech Conference in San Francisco where there is a lot of stuff that is
relevant to RTD that I would be happy to bring back information about. And next week, I'm going to the
Colorado Association of Transit Agencies, and there will be all kinds of cool stuff there. So I would like to
see those of us who are elected officials share what we learn, not only with our peers, but with the agency
as a whole. Thank you. Now I will star 6 again if it works.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I think that's a great idea. We look forward to hearing that next week in your Board
member report, which will be on the agenda. And yeah, and make sure you inform the Board Office of your
future conferences and so forth. Excellent. So we're going to move down to the agenda right above other
matters, a Director report segment.
And I appreciate Director Tisdale streamlining it and having people contact him with what their activities
are. I'll just let Board members say what they're doing. So if that's OK, good. I appreciate you, Director
Tisdale, bringing that forward. I agree. I think that's an important thing for the public to know that we're out
there doing things. We don't just show up at one of these meetings and we're done in a couple of hours,
and that's all we do. We're constantly engaging. So it's great to let the world know about that.
Any other discussion on the Director reports? OK, seeing none, I'm going to-- oh, did I hear someone?
Seeing none, I'm going to move on to the Bylaw and Governance Manual update. I think I'll start with a
question to First Vice Chair Guissinger, Secretary Sloan, because I know you guys had undertaken some

work on that. Let's start with you guys, if you could tell us what, if anything, more you're doing. And then
we'll move into a broader discussion of bylaw provisions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You want to take it away, Marjorie?
MARJORIE SLOAN: No, Lynn. You can describe the ever-expanding scope of our project. And we will
include our counsel as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. We worked through the guidance document. There were actually a Board
guidance document, and there was a customs and practices that Ralph [INAUDIBLE] had drafted. And then
there was a third document that had to do with guidance. I forget the name of it, Marjorie, if you want to
help.
And we went through all of those. We're trying to simplify and combine and just have basically a guidance
document. A lot of the other, we felt like we could include there or not. And we did some redlining and
added some language. And I think Tai-Shrae and the Board Office added some that we went over.
And the origin of some of this was the idea that if three or more Directors would like to have some sort of
meeting to discuss their region, or diversity, equity, inclusion-- those are two of the examples that came up- that we ought to have a provision that allows that. And the provision simply says it has to comply with the
Open Meetings Law. It has to be posted in compliance with that. It has to be emailed out to other Directors.
And so the other Directors and the public are all welcome to attend, but the idea is to authorize this kind of
informal meeting to help with planning things. Any other notable item, Marjorie?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I would just say that we began looking at simplifying the Governance Manual, which
everyone gets during orientation. But there are also two other documents, as you mentioned, the Operating
Guidelines and a memo on RTD customs. There was a lot of repetition, and then sometimes some conflict.
So we ended up trying to incorporate all of that.
There were also just some awkward items, like Board principles that did not truly incorporate the bylaws,
but reflected the bylaws although it was shortened. And that was when we called in counsel, Melanie, to
ask her to review that and make suggestions as well.
I think the question for the Executive Committee, after you're satisfied as to what Lynn and I have been
doing, would be, do you want to get presented with an entire amended Governance Manual, or do you want
to take priority sections separately. And that would include the proposed section on informal meetings that
did comply with the Open Meetings Act.
Perhaps that could be taken out and put on the agenda as a specific matter as well, because it's an
important thing. We talked about it at the retreat. Staff has raised other concerns, and it might be a matter
of priority for the entire Board to look at that.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I think that's a good idea to pull that one out and bring that separately. Oh, I'm sorry.
I didn't see your hand. Go ahead.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was going to agree that I think we ought to pull that out separately,
because that's a pretty material change. A lot of what you described in the rest of it was kind of technical
cleanup of the document, and that might be better served kind of as-- I don't know what word I'm trying to
get at, but I just think that those aren't real material changes there, just cleaning it up, right, and that there
aren't too many things that require a lot of discussion from the Board.
Director Guissinger and I were talking about some, I guess, ambiguity in some of the customs, or some of
the bylaws and some of the customs, and maybe some of those should be pulled out for further discussion,
like I said. Yield to Lynn. I don't know.
VINCE BUZEK: First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I think we were talking about some of the contracting things, and I think that
some of what we need to look at in terms of the bylaws, we weren't changing. But what Marjorie and I were
doing wasn't changing bylaws at this point. That may be some of what's coming up in the near future. But I
think, yeah, let's pull these apart and bring them forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And in terms of the revisions, even though they may be technical in nature, I think
it'd probably be a good idea to bring that forward as an action item to the Board of Directors coming out of
the Executive Committee, so that we're fully transparent and can have a discussion with everybody if they
feel appropriate to discuss. So any thoughts on that? Sound good?
So in a broader sense, then, this discussion we've had, I've been kind of advocating this discussion of
looking at our bylaws and seeing what provisions may need to be cleaned up and changed, or what things
may need addressing as a result of our Board retreat. So I've been working on that.
In the interim, we've had this most recent discussion about contracting authority of the General Manager
CEO, and our delegation of authority to her with regard to contracting. This has come up most recently with
our local lobbying contract that was recently put out for a bid and awarded to an entity.
So part of that process is defined in the bylaws as being within the scope of the Board of Directors. And
also described in the bylaws is the ability of the Board of Directors to delegate authority to the General
Manager for matters even including executive decisions. So we have a little bit of conflict there. One of the
things I'm wanting to do is look at those provisions in the bylaws, and make sure that we clean those up
and make those pretty clear about what we're looking at.
I had a discussion with General Manager CEO Johnson immediately before this meeting with regard to the
delegation of authority matter, and indicating that we as the Board may be coming forward with an
amendment to that document in the very near future to clarify the types of contracts included in the
delegation and clarify the types of contracts excluded by the delegation. So working on that document, and
we'll be seeking input as it moves along from all of you here. Any questions or other comments?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Chair. Mr. Chair.

VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hi. Thank you. The voice from the parking lot in San Francisco here. I'm thinking back
to the original comment that I heard from Directors Sloan and Guissinger about pulling out the piece that
had to do with three or more Directors being able to meet. And I am wondering if it is possible for us to tie
that piece to the previous discussion about what Directors are doing and where, and possibly put something
on our website that says that.
I know we have to notice if we are going to meet, and I'm wondering if that can be noticed on the website,
that on Wednesday at 10 o'clock, these four Directors are going to meet on this topic. And additionally,
here's where you can find Director Sloan and here's where you can find Director Buzek. Have we ever
looked at that? Is the possibility there?
VINCE BUZEK: I'll defer to Ms. McManus, but I do believe that the RTD website is the official noticing place
for public notice, location for meetings such as this. We could potentially talk to communications to make
that section when it has to deal with Director meetings outside of RTD more noticeable. So that might be
something to think about.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just think that it would be a public relations plus, as well as making it legal that we were
noticing the public, where we were and what we were doing, whether we were alone or in a group. So it's
just a thought. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to express that idea.
VINCE BUZEK: Duly noted, and we will take that under advisement. Thanks so much. Any other
discussions from anyone with regard to bylaws, Governance Manual, things like that? Ms. McManus, I see
your hand. Go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, so just to extend on what Director Williams was talking about, we would
have to notice all of that. It would be noticed just like any other meeting that we were having, committee
meetings, ad hoc meetings, et cetera. So that's defined as part of quora, and that's something that we would
be pushing forward as part of our process.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't know exactly what your intention is relative
to this agenda, and whether you're going to bring up separately a subject that we have talked about
regarding a specific application of this question, which specific application relates to the process for our
local lobbyist to be selected and engaged. And so I ask, are you wanting to include that conversation here
on this topic, or do you have a separate topic you want to present in a moment relative to that? Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: No, I want to include it here, and I will yield the floor to you to make your comments.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you. I appreciate that opportunity then. As many of you know, there has been
a fair amount of concern that has been expressed relative to the process of selecting a new local lobbyist

for the Board. And I thought what I might do, just for the benefit of the Executive Committee, is to take a
moment to share some history.
You know that I was privileged to serve as the Chair of the Board for two terms. And during those two years,
I made two mistakes as Board Chair, and was dressed down by the Board for each of those. One of them
related to the selection site for the National Medal of Honor Museum, which prompted some animated
criticism of how that had been handled by the Chair and the then General Manager. And the complaint was
made that the Board had not been fully engaged in that process, and there was an understandable
expression of concern associated with that.
The second mistake that I made actually came a little earlier in time, I believe, and that related to the
lobbying contract renewals. Each time that I made a mistake as Chair of the Board, it related to not engaging
the full Board in the process, and that was something that I acknowledged, and in both of those
circumstances, literally publicly fell on my sword relative to how that had been handled.
As you may know, as some of you may have seen, and I think that we can make these available to everyone,
and they would be informative, the June 21, 2018 meeting of the Executive Committee was a very extended
discussion relative to the process of selecting and approving lobbyists, federal, state, and local, by the RTD.
And in that circumstance, just very briefly in terms of history, but you can refer to the document-- it's the
June 21, 2018 Executive Committee Full Minutes, and that document, I think, is 27 pages long. And about
16 or 17 of those pages relate to this discussion. And there was a complete explication of the process.
Abbreviated, that was this.
The delegation of the 4K resolution adopted by the Board gives the General Manager CEO signing authority
up to certain amounts. When the question arose relative to the-- I believe it was the exercise of the option
to renew the BBMK contract, the Brandeberry McKenna contract, as our state lobbyist.
The then General Manager Dave Genova approached me as the Chair of the Board and said, I'm bringing
this forward to the Board for informational purposes, but my question to you, Mr. Chair, is, should I bring it
forward for approval by the Board. As a lawyer, I looked at the circumstances and said, well, a delegation
of authority resolution gives you that right to sign the contract. I think you just bring it forward for information,
and you do not bring it forward for approval by the Board.
Oh, how little I knew. I was hit with a very, very animated discussion by the entire Executive Committee and
other Members of the Board saying, you know what, when it comes to the lobbying contracts, that's different.
We need to follow a different procedure, and we absolutely have to ensure that the full Board weighs in on
this.
As to that particular contract, it had already been signed as of June 21, 2018. And so therefore, it was not
a question of bringing the contract forward for approval by the Board, because it had already been executed.
So what we in the Executive Committee determined was that the appropriate thing to do was to bring that
item before the Board for ratification and reaffirmation, something that is commonly done in a number of
state agencies.

I referred in those minutes to the fact that I was chairing the State Board of Psychotherapists Committee at
the Department of Regulatory Agencies, and we routinely did that relative to what the Executive Director of
the agency did in between meetings concerning psychotherapists in Colorado. So we had a precedent for
how we could proceed with that.
The Executive Committee, in its fulsome discussion, pointed out how this procedure should be done relative
to lobbying contracts. It is not clear in the bylaws that that would be a process that was required. It was not
clear in the delegation of authority resolution. But it was clear as to a custom and practice of the Board, and
the Executive Committee expressly chose to ratify that custom and practice on June 21, 2018.
And the Board, then, the next Tuesday heard that, and took action accordingly, and ratified and reaffirmed
the contract. To me, that action by the Executive Committee established a precedent. Now, there are those
who do not necessarily agree with the concept of stare decisis. There are those who do not necessarily
want to follow precedent when they disagree with it, when it is uncomfortable to them.
But I have always believed that precedent and stare decisis deserves a significant respect. And I think
under the circumstances, it is more than likely that the General Manager CEO did not have the benefit of
that history, as I did not have the benefit of that history when I was Chair, and therefore fell on my sword
because of what had occurred, and brought it back to the full Board for that ratification and reaffirmation.
I think it would behoove this Executive Committee to follow that precedent from 2018, and to say, this is
how the matter should be presented. I think that decisions-- sorry. If it's for me, take a message, OK. I think
that decisions of the Executive Committee and of the Board ought to be able to be relied upon by other
people in the future, whether it's new Board Members or others.
And if they wish to change that, good heavens, that's exactly right. That's what we spend a fair amount of
time in these minutes talking about, as to the process that could take place. But I still think that we need to
honor that. And so I respectfully submit that there could be some discussion here, and we might wish to
take the opportunity to explore how do we wish to address it, A, as to this circumstance, because I do not
know whether this contract has been signed.
Therefore, I don't know whether we could technically call it a motion for approval, or whether it has in fact
been signed, and we would bring it forward as a motion for ratification and reaffirmation. And in any event,
then, perhaps to proceed with exploring-- and we actually discussed this in 2018-- exploring the possibility
of clarifying the delegation of authority resolution.
That's merely a resolution. We can bring that forward at any time, and include in that resolution, as I
expressed in 2018, the authority delegated to the General Manager CEO includes these amounts, but as
to these subject matters, it is something that must be brought forward to the Board. I may have further
comments, but I wanted to set the stage for the opportunity for those who might not have had an opportunity
to review those minutes in the past. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. So Director Tisdale has presented to us the concept of either
ratifying and reaffirming a contract that's been let, or approving a contract that hasn't been let yet. I guess

I'll turn first to our General Counsel, Ms. Snyder, to see what, if any, concerns or recommendations she
may have in that regard.
MELANIE SYNDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair I think it makes sense for this Executive Committee to talk
through, as Director Tisdale has suggested, what the status of that prior 2018 custom was. I think there's
some challenges given the intervening delegation to the General Manager that was just approved by the
full Board in March of this year. I think there may be some questions about whether you look back, whether
that really superseded any of those prior delegations which they really intended. I believe that's the way it
was drafted and intended to do.
So I think that certainly, the Board, I would recommend if you want to make changes, the Board, certainly,
that's the prerogative of the Board. But I would recommend that you do that on a prospective basis and not
go back and look at contracts and procurements that are already in process, either have already been put
out for solicitation or in the process of finalizing a contract. I would recommend you don't retroactively try to
make changes now that we're in the midst of a process.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. So that's in terms of clarifying the delegation of authority. What about the concept
of ratifying and affirming, or actually approving the current contract that's out there?
MELANIE SYNDER: Well, the Board could certainly ask that the GM-- you have your delegation that's out
there. If the Board wanted to amend the delegation and make an exception for this type of contract, that
could happen. I think the concern I have with a ratification is, what happens if the Board doesn't want to
ratify, or doesn't vote to ratify a contract, where already, we established a process when a request for
proposals went out. And I don't recommend changing that process. You know, vendors were given-- I just
don't recommend changing the process right now midstream when vendors were already told what that
process would look like.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. First Vice Chair Guissinger-KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: One minute, Director Williams. Can you hold for a second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, I can.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I just recognized First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Initially, I just have one quick question. Melanie, I thought that we were raising the
amount that was delegated. Were there other things that we changed in that delegation of authority that
you say would supersede this situation?
MELANIE SYNDER: Yes. Mr. Chair, If I may?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.

MELANIE SYNDER: Yes. So yes, the Board increased the dollar amount. So the prior 2007 delegation had
capped the General Manager's authority at $500,000. The March delegation from this year increased that
authority to $2 million. Also, both of those delegations always had a carve-out for routine operational goods
and services that didn't have any dollar limit on them. So those were things like fuel and tires and some
other categories.
One of the other things that the most recent delegation did was that it specifically enumerated very specific
operational goods and services, and didn't say that those were just examples. So for example, one example
that comes to mind, previously, the security contracts, so for example with Allied Security, was included
within that general operational, routine operational goods and services, with no dollar limitation. The security
services is no longer a specifically enumerated category of operational goods and services that is not
subject to a dollar amount, which means those contracts do need to come to the Board if they're above $2
million. So that's one thing that also changed.
The third thing that I would say that changed in the 2022 delegation is that it expanded the scope of
definitions for contracts. So it includes all contracts, not just contracts for goods and services. So intergovernmental agreements, revenue producing contracts, fiber swaps, really all contracts. So it's very clear
that the General Manager has that authority.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. You know, I'll let other people comment. I have a concern that the bylaws still
say that certain contracts come to the Board. I'd have to go back and look at that delegation of authority to
see whether I would agree that that takes away that bylaw, or whether we delegated that authority away.
But Section 17, I think it's Article V of page 32, is very specific about certain contracts that come to the
boards. Anyway, I'll let other people speak for now, and I'll come back. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Director Williams, can you unmute and speak?
KATE WILLIAMS: I can. Thank you, Chair. I think the issue that we're kind of dancing around here is that
the contract that we are talking about now, it specifically has to do with those agencies that are lobbyists.
and I personally feel, as I am an elected public official in the public eye-- my phone number is on the
website-- that those agencies very much work with me, at least as much as they work with agency staff,
and maybe more so. And so I don't know if any of the other Directors feel that way, but I think those are the
type of contracts that we are looking at.
I'm not personally worried about altering or getting approval on contracts for striping in the parking lot, at
the park and ride myself. But contracts that affect me, I feel like I want to be more involved in. So that's my
input. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Secretary Sloan.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. I appreciate this entire discussion, and especially find value in Director Tisdale's
description of, this was an established custom of the agency. And it also surprises me, because I didn't see

a red-line copy of the delegation of authority that we did just approve. And I have no problem with
operational contracts being delegated to our Executive Director.
And I will review this, but as Director Tisdale explained, this was extensively discussed in 2018, and
distinctive elements of this type of contract were identified. And it appears to me that that's what we need
in any amendment of either the bylaws or the delegation of authority.
And it also seems to me that it shouldn't just be a final approval or ratification-- that Board Members,
because they are, as Director Williams pointed out, directly involved in this, and consultants such as the
contract under discussion do involve policy matters, that there should be some prior notice to the Board of
the scope of work, as well as the final product for approval.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for your comments. Second Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I'm going to have to get off this. I'll try and call in on my phone.
To Director Sloan's point, I think there has been some concern that the scope was changed from previous
scopes of work for that particular lobbyist, and the particular scope items that were reduced had to do with
engagement with the Board. And I agree. I think that because these are matters of policy, that we perhaps
should have been more involved in the review of the scope of work. That's all I have.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. So I'm going to summarize. Oh, I'm sorry. Ms. McManus, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just wanted to add to what General Counsel Snyder brought up, right, that even
though this was established in 2018 and brought forward as a ratification, I think recognizing that the Board
just approved the new delegation, and that we are making changes to the bylaws, that moving forward in
making the changes, in how items like this should be handled, is the best way to move forward.
And I say that because we are talking about the current local liaison contract, but we're also talking about
the Brandeberry McKenna contract that did not come to the Board also, and that was a year ago. So I think
to move forward in a ratification process in including those two items, you know, I just want everybody to
consider the optics of that as opposed to just making the adjustments and the changes of what was just
approved, and defining those more clearly in the bylaws as we move forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. And it kind of reflects a lot of my thinking as well. So we're
faced with two options, right. So with regard to the current contract, I don't know if it's signed or not signed,
but there was a process that went through and a team that reviewed all the submissions. And someone
was selected for our local lobbying firm. I don't know if the contract's signed, not signed, and I don't really
think that matters at this point.
The suggestions are to, one, either come forward with a ratification, reaffirmation if that contract's been let,
or an approval of the contract if it hasn't been let, to reflect the fact that the Board has that right to do that
based on custom, practice, and arguably on the bylaws. The other alternative is, amend the delegation of
authority to carve out, and make sure we carve out, all of the exclusions to contracting authority that we
want to have in there.

Now, the General Counsel has told us that there may be some problems with doing the ratification,
reaffirmation with regard to the process that was out there. The other problem, I think, is that this happened
last year for the Brandeberry McKenna contract, and we didn't affirm and ratify that contract. And they've
been working for a year under that contract. So I see problems with the ratification, reaffirmation way to go,
and not so many with changing the delegation of authority. So I'd like people to comment on that, on which
way you think we should go before we sign off here. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. And relative to that, I mean I can live, obviously,
either way. I mean, it's the Executive Committee's call on what we put on the agenda. And whether there
are three Directors who want to petition to put this on the agenda, I don't know, and I don't complain.
I do want to point out a couple of important facts that I neglected to address in my history. In the case of
the selection for Brandeberry McKenna that was addressed in 2016, there was a committee that was put
together relative to that process. And Director Paul Solano was on that committee, so the Board had a
representative on that committee. I am unaware whether there was a Director who was involved in this
process relative to the local contract, the local lobbyist contract. That was an important element of our
process in the past.
Secondly, the process, and which is what made it even more embarrassing for me when I had to fall on my
sword, the process of presenting these contracts for approval by the Board was one that, according to Ms.
McManus's research at the time, as I expressed in the minutes, had been going on for at least six years
prior.
That would mean that, using last year as a change from that process, for a period of at least nine years,
this Board has done that. And I think what we're saying is, the delegation of authority resolution is an easy
and important mechanic for us to go ahead and say, OK, you have delegated authority relative to contracts,
some with dollar limits, some without. But as to the content of those contracts, there's an important
exception regarding the federal, state, and local lobbyists. Those must be presented to the Board. Thank
you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for those comments. So I'm going to turn to the remaining members of the
Executive Committee with regard to whether or not the Executive Committee should propose to ratify and
reaffirm or approve the contract for the local lobbying firm that is currently in process. Or, should we change
the delegation authority to ensure that obligation and duty and right is vested in the Board? So First Vice
Chair Guissinger, I'm going to call on you first.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I'll start by saying I like the idea of changing the delegation and potentially
the bylaws. I'm not sure if you were suggesting, Director Tisdale, that it would just be for this particular
contract. But I think we should look at it more broadly in terms of-- I mean, not just these types of contracts,
not just the lobbyist contracts, but just really what sorts of contracts and decisions need to come to the
Board.
So you know, I've talked with the Chair about that, and I'm all on board. As Director Catlin said, and I think
maybe Director Williams too, there's some concerns with the scope of work here. Whether that's best

brought to the Board as a ratification, affirmation, or how to best handle that, I do think some attention to
this contract needs to be had. But I'm open to various options. Am I not answering the question?
VINCE BUZEK: No, you're not. Do you believe the Executive Committee should bring a resolution forward
to ratify and reaffirm the contract if it's been let?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, there are only three of us left on this Executive Committee, so it's a-VINCE BUZEK: Majority.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's a small group. And I don't know if this contract's been signed. I'm not sure whether
it's ratifying and reaffirming. And also, I guess-- OK, here's my hesitance, is we've gone through this
process. you know, if we need to make changes to have it come forward, we need to think through that.
But yeah, I guess I would say, let's bring it forward. If members of the Board want to look at this, and I think
that we should-- my hesitance is just trying to get this pulled together the best way it can be, and I don't
know whether that's ratifying and reaffirming or approving, or doing some other things on the side. But I will
not vote against bringing this to the Board.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Secretary Sloan, any comments?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah. I'm just on the one hand this and on the other hand that. As Director Guissinger- I'm not sure of the value of bringing this particular contract back for reaffirmation if we don't have the
backup discussion and proposed bylaw or delegation authority behind it.
You know, I understand General Counsel Snyder's concerns, and vendors out there, if they feel like they
can't depend on the process that RTD has purported to tell them that this is what we do, and if you
participate in the process, you will receive the contract afterwards.
To me, it seems like the better thing would be to change the process rather than saying, hey, wait, wait, we
used to have this custom that the Board has to look at the contract. But I'm also concerned with the scope
of this contract, and I'm not sure how that is best dealt with going forward, you know, whether it would be
an amendment process or simply a collaborative discussion with the contractors who have emerged from
this process.
So again, I'm not being very clear. I don't see how the reaffirmation will forward this. I do see the need to
improve and define the process for this type of contract. And I agree with Director Guissinger. It's not just
saying, hey, lobbyist contracts. It's defining the elements that make this a Board matter. I also think it maybe
should be a matter of Board discussion about how to work with the selected local lobbyists going forward,
however that would work.
LYNN GUISSINGER: May I make a suggestion?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, go ahead.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Is there a way to start the delegation and the amendment process, the drafting and
all of that, and sort of look at where this contract stands with Melanie and all of us, and kind of-- it's putting
off the decision a little bit. I don't want it to lose weight, but it may present it to itself what the best way to
move forward is if we do so.
VINCE BUZEK: So, and hence the problem. There was a process that was used to select this new lobbying
firm. We may disagree strongly with that process, but what do you then say to all of the other people that
participated in that process about it if we come back and say, oh, wait, wait, we're putting the brakes on
this thing. And we might think about reaffirming and it might not get reaffirmed. So this entity that has been
told, you win, is now told, ah, maybe not. What's the optic of that? And Director Tisdale, you've had your
hand up for a while, so go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Really just a question, and that is, how is it that we
sitting here today do not know whether this contract has been signed? I'm befuddled by that. It's a simple
question, and I would assume that we would know whether or not the contracts were signed. We keep on
saying, well, I don't know whether it's signed or not. Excuse me. Someone could answer that question.
And I note the absence of the General Manager because she's at another important conference, but we
always have a representative of the General Manager at the meeting. And unless General Counsel is
assuming that role, which I don't know I would be totally comfortable with, and I don't think she would either,
where's the General Manager's representative who could answer that question to us?
For example, in the meeting, June 21, 2018, Mr. Genova was gone because of a family emergency. But
Mr. Meater was there to respond to questions. So has the contract been signed, and where's the General
Manager's representative to advise us? Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: I'll turn to General Counsel Snyder, who's got her hand raised.
MELANIE SYNDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wish I could say for sure. I don't know the answer to the
question of whether it's been signed. I'm not aware that it has been, but I'm also not aware whether it hasn't
been, and I'm not sure if Mr. McKay is on the line and knows. The one thing I do want to note for the record,
just so that it's really clear, that when we talk about concerns with the process, we're talking about whether
the General Manager should have brought this contract to the Board.
We're not calling into question the fairness of the solicitation that went out, or the panel process or the
criteria that was used. We're really talking about just whether this should have come to the Board. We just
want to make sure that no one is suggesting that there's been anything improper with the solicitation itself,
the scoring, the panel that was impaneled to evaluate all the potential bids.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that. Mr. McKay, if you're on, do you have any information you can share
with regard to this contract?
JOHN MCKAY: I am not aware. This is John McKay from the Executive Office. I am not aware whether this
has been signed or not. I apologize. I can't turn on my camera, it seems.

MELANIE SYNDER: But Mr. McKay, we can confirm that right after this meeting and get an email out to
the Board.
VINCE BUZEK: Could you do that?
MELANIE SYNDER: Absolutely.
VINCE BUZEK: That'd be great. So I guess we're not going to have any much resolution to this today. It's
unfortunate that two Directors, two Members of the Executive Committee had to drop off, because this is a
pretty important discussion. So I will continue the discussion, I suppose. Anything further from anybody on
this issue?
OK, seeing none, I'm going to move on to the next matter at hand, and that is the recruitment process for
the Board Office Executive Manager. With Ms. McManus's upcoming retirement this year, the Executive
Committee needs to take a look at the job description and the process by which we begin the solicitation
for her replacement. And this is within the scope of the Board and the Executive Committee.
So a couple of options there. An option is to go outside to an outside recruiting firm to look at getting
candidates in. Or I think another option is to use-- or a human resources department if we have one. I don't
think we have a leader in that regard right now. But use our HR department to assist us in a solicitation. So
that's one aspect of it. The other aspect is reviewing and revising, if appropriate, the job description for the
Board Office Executive Manager. Any discussions, Ms. Sloan or Ms. Guissinger?
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Buzek. Chair Buzek, this is Director Williams. I have to leave you now. I thought I
would say goodbye.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, do you want to chime in on this?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that it is our Board Office, and that Ms. McManus runs that. And her replacement
will run that and report to us. [INAUDIBLE] myself. So yeah, I think we should all take a look at the job
description for the person that helped make herding 15 cats look simple. So yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: And that's my last comment for now. I will see you all later.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Goodbye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think you were calling on me. it looks like Marjorie has a comment.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Sloan, go ahead.
MARJORIE SLOAN: This is just brief because I really don't have enough history to know the previous
process. But Director Williams did point out that the Board Office is in a slightly different position from the

rest of RTD staff. Our HR office is understaffed, right now, anyway, and we don't know how long that will
last. So it does appear to me that an outside recruiting firm might be helpful for the Board to choose.
VINCE BUZEK: Good. Good. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I had a chance to think this through very much. I'd like to see the job
description. I think that's a great idea from Director Williams. And I think maybe looking at the job description
for similarly situated people, one that comes to mind is for the Metro Mayors. And you know, Catherine
Marinelli has been there for many years. That's another example, so that we can kind of compare it to other
similarly situated things and see if there are ideas we want to bring in.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. That sounds good. In terms of getting an outside-- and I believe Ms. McManus has
allocated some funds in her Board Office budget in the event we decide to use an outside consultant. So
we could do that. Director Tisdale, any thoughts as long as you're still here?
DOUG TISDALE: Only to say that it's a process that I never wanted to engage in while I was still on Board.
And I do note that this topic relative to selection of Board Managers is one of the related topics that will be
discussed in Salt Lake City at the APTA Transit Board Members Conference. We will have an extended
discussion on CEO selection and CEO performance reviews in Salt Lake at that conference, but there will
also be discussion of the Board Administrators process as well. So that's obviously the end of July. So we
may need to address this sooner, but there is some aid that we can get from that, I believe. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: That's great. Great information. Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I did step away for a moment, and the contract is not currently signed.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. So getting back to the process of selecting the New Board Office Manager, I
guess the best place to start, regardless of whether we go internally or externally to get help with that, is to
look at the job description, because we're going to need to give that to whoever we use for the solicitation.
So why don't we-- Ms. McManus, if you could route to the members of the Executive Committee your current
job description? And Director Tisdale, I know the Transit Board Administrators group in APTA, do you know
if they have a generic job description for TBMs, TBAs, whatever they're-- I'm sorry, no. Ms. McManus
shaking her head, so.
DOUG TISDALE: Funny you should mention. We've just gone through a process with them of securing
some additional information relative to job descriptions and classifications for Transit Board Administrators
pursuant to discussions that we had previously in the Executive Committee. So there is some information
that is being developed, but I don't know what the state of that is currently. And I think that the Transit Board
Administrator from Jacksonville Transit Authority, JTA, is the Chair of that group. And I think she's been
leading that charge.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. So McManus, if you could get us your job description. And if you know of any other
TBA job descriptions floating about out there, if you could hunt some of those down, that'd be great. I think

for now, what we're going to do is take a look first at the job description. Let's talk more next month after
you've seen Ms. McManus's, and let's come prepared next month to have a robust discussion about the
job description for that position. Ms. McManus, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I do with the current initiative that the agency is going through with an external
vendor to look at job descriptions, pay grades, and how they're defined, that there will be an exercise moving
forward to look at job descriptions. I will work with HR to see if there is some sort of proposed template that
they will be using that will align the current job descriptions with some of the elements of the strategic plan,
and what that might look like, because I haven't seen anything. I haven't seen anything, but I did want to
get this process started, just because the time frame is going to sneak up on us pretty quickly.
VINCE BUZEK: Right, exactly. And that's why I think it's of utmost importance to address the job description
first, because if we do go to an outside entity, they're going to say, OK, give me the job description. We
need to know what we're looking for. So let's get going on that, and put that number one on the list for our
next meeting. And members of this Executive Committee, get ready to sharpen pencils.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry. If we could also at the same time ask this group, while they're looking at
the job description, to look at a timeline of what needs to be done and when we want to have that
accomplished by, my plan is to give my formal resignation of retirement probably at the beginning of
September, giving four months for the recruitment.
And therefore, what I'm hoping is that the new job description and a timeline is set forth so that we can have
a little bit of an overlap with whoever the new selection may be prior to me leaving. So that's just something
to think about, if that's not something that the Board wants to do, then the timeline can change.
VINCE BUZEK: That makes sense. That seems to make sense. Sooner rather than later, we need to get
moving, because as you say, things creep up on us. And we don't need to be in that situation. OK. Anything
else? Any other discussion on the recruitment process for the Board Office Executive Manager? Ms.
McManus, your hand's up. Nope, you're good. OK. OK, any other matters to discuss with the Executive
Committee? First Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just quickly, the SB-180 the Zero-Fare August Bill passed. It's up for signing. It
sounds like it's probably going to be signed on Tuesday. And they put, I think, those of us who've been
working on it, Troy and me, at least, on the list for getting the invitation. But maybe I'll see how that comes
out, and we can send that on to the rest of the Board to attend the signing if anyone can. That would be
great.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. That would be great to have as many Board Members there as possible. Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I'll be out of town all next week, and probably in route, so I probably will miss
the Board meeting next week, my first one. But I may be able to tune in for part of it.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, Ms. McManus.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So I have a question for Director Whitmore and Guissinger regarding that. So as I
understand it, there will be a process in which RTD will need to apply for a grant for a defined dollar amount.
So if you could just keep us in the loop on the timing of that, because we're squeaking into June and we're
talking about August.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I think that Michael Davies is the point person working with somebody in the
Colorado Energy Office on that, and that's a good reminder. I should probably check in with him before I
leave town. But I think he and Ms. Johnson are moving that forward, and I'll ask them to keep you and the
Board in the know. And it sounds like he's coming to the Board meeting and giving a report. Is that right,
Mr. Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, that's correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: All right, that would be great. I did try to get with him prior to this once we heard,
but he is on vacation. So thank you for the update.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, yes. Since I'm leaving and he's gone, maybe Tuesday is the best place to ask
for that. That'd be great.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. OK, anything else to come before the Executive Committee? Seeing nothing,
we are adjourned at 1:16 PM. Thanks, everybody, for all the discussion and comments. Bye-bye.

