2024-01-16
Finance and Planning Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good evening, everyone. The Tuesday, January 16 Finance and Planning Committee
meeting will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:31 Mountain Standard Time PM. I would
respectfully ask everyone attending the meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak.
Thank you for joining us this evening. Please note that our committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are continuing to be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. Meeting
recordings, along with unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board's website at rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube
page.
I would now like to call the roll for committee members of the Finance and Planning Committee. Director
Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger is absent. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: For the sake of the record, I see that we have six Directors from the Finance and
Planning Committee present. Also for the sake of the record, I would note that also in attendance from the
Board are myself. This is Board Chair Erik Davidson. I also see joining us today Director Whitmore,
Director Buzek, Director Bouquet and Director Harwick. Have I missed any Directors, for the sake of the
record? All right. Not seeing any, we will move on.
The first item on the agenda this evening is the selection of the Chair and Vice Chair. As the Board Chair,
I will facilitate committee elections. And once the seats are filled for Chair and Vice Chair of this
committee, I will then turn over the meeting to the Committee Chair. Unlike the Executive Committee

election process, where we use secret ballots for the election of Board officers, for committee leadership
appointments we proceed with open nominations, discussion, and vote by the full committee.
We will begin with the selection of the Chair and then move on to the Vice Chair. We will allow for up to
three minutes for Board members who wish to nominate a candidate and for those seconding
nominations, if any, and other members who wish to speak regarding a candidate. I will then call for a
vote, and then the candidate who receives at least four votes will be appointed.
If only one Director is nominated, the committee may proceed by acclamation and that Director will be
appointed. If no candidate receives four votes, then we will repeat the process outlined above until a
candidate does receive four votes.
I will first of all start by asking for nominations for Committee Chair.
BOB BROOM: This is Director Broom. I would nominate Tisdale.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Broom. I hear Director Tisdale having been nominated.
Are there any other nominations for the position of Chair of Finance and Planning Committee?
All right. With only Director Tisdale having been nominated as Committee Chair, I would ask if anyone is
opposed to appointing Director Tisdale to the position of Committee Chair by acclamation. Are there any
no votes?
Seeing none, with unanimous of all six of the present Finance and Planning Committee members
present, we would now announce that Director Tisdale is the Committee Chair of Finance and Planning.
Congratulations, sir, and thank you for your continued service. I, for one, am delighted that you will
continue shepherding this committee in the year ahead. So thank you, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Would it be appropriate now for me to take over, having
been selected as Chair, for the Office of Vice Chair? Or do you want to just continue that and get that out
of the way?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure, Committee Chair Tisdale I'll continue. I'll just go ahead and complete the Vice
Chair election and then I'll turn it over to you.
So at this time, I will now ask for any nominations for Committee Vice Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: I nominate Director Michael Guzman to serve as Finance and Planning Committee Vice
Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Thank you. That is a nomination for Director Guzman. Are there any other
nominations for Vice Chair of the committee?
All right. With only Director Guzman having been nominated as Committee Vice Chair, I will now ask if
there's anyone opposed to appointing Director Guzman to the position of Committee Vice Chair by
acclamation. Are there any no votes?
All right, seeing none again, with all six of our present committee members, I would now like to say
congratulations to Committee Vice Chair Guzman. Thank you for being willing to serve in this role. Feel

very good about the work we have to do this year with the leadership of Directors Tisdale and Guzman.
So thank you for the service.
Now that my election duties are complete, I will hand over to our Committee Chair, Doug Tisdale, for the
remainder of the meeting. Thank you, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Board Chair. We appreciate your facilitation of our selection of
Committee Chair and Vice Chair for the Finance and Planning Committee.
The next item that we have on our agenda is the public comment period. And I would ask our Board
Manager, Mr. Kroll, whether he has any indication of any public comment, either from a person in the
queue or from any email communications received. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Chair Tisdale, we do have a individual, Richard Bamber, who has raised their hand in
indication that they might like to add some public comment.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. Mr. Bamber, we welcome you back to the committee
and we invite you to speak for up to three minutes-- don't feel compelled to take the whole time-- and
address the Finance and Planning Committee at this time, sir.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi. Good evening. First of all, congratulations, Directors Tisdale and Guzman, on
your appointments.
We begin the year with the sad news that obviously one of our Directors is no longer able to serve. I'd like
everybody to remember from everything we do that Kate Williams was one of the best bus riders out
there. Still is. Yeah, she sets an example to us all. So let's just remember that. When advocates say we
want people who ride the system to be running the system, she is the sort of person we need. Now, we
totally admit we didn't agree with everything Kate did or said. But overall, Kate are one of the good ones.
So let's just remember that.
It's January. Legislative session has started. And of course, the came old question, should we change
RTD's governance? Should we do this? I'll be straight with you on behalf of GDT. We do not support a
change in any of your Board structure. We will not be supporting that this year.
That said, though, this year is a key one, OK. We've got to tell people why we deserve to keep the elected
Board, why we deserve to keep the same structure, why we don't want it to be blown up by some
Senator, OK. All right? So going forward, the committee work plans, OK, it's great the staff have put theirs
in. But what we'd love to see, as your elected officials, is Directors putting things on those work plans,
filling those things up, taking things from the general public and bringing them through the committee, so
the public does feel that they actually have a true say, OK.
And then the other thing is is we, like I'm going to repeat it what I said in the budget, me and my sort of
cohorts did, that budget was less than transparent. It shouldn't be that you guys find out about $57 million
allowance for a maintenance of way depot because I asked a question. Those questions should be asked
by yourselves or they should be given to you. So the 2025 budget needs to go differently. Let's keep that,
because that's going to be a key one for this committee.
Anyway, I hope you all had a great Christmas, New Year, holidays, whatever you celebrate. I look forward
to another great year. Thanks.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Bamber. We appreciate your participation. And as you know,
the committee and the full Board, when we have public comment, do not give remarks back on the
comments. I will make this one exception now under the extraordinary circumstances that we face and to
say that each and all of us join wholeheartedly in your words of praise and thanks for our friend,
colleague, and true compatriot, Director Kate Williams of District A.
Mr. Kroll, are there any other persons in the queue or having submitted written comments?
JACK KROLL: All right, Director Tisdale. We have no further queue, signees, signer uppers, if you will,
and we did receive one public comment via email from Nick Feit, and that has been transmitted to the
Board electronically.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. And that is in your email box, Directors. And I believe that went to the full Board
and not just the committee members. So you are invited and encouraged to review those comments at
your convenience.
Well, hearing no further public comment, we then turn to the agenda item that is labeled Information from
External Entities. Mr. Board Manager Kroll, do we have any external entities who have communicated
with us, either in person or through written or electronic means, for information?
JACK KROLL: We do not.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Then we turn next to an update from our revenue diversification
working group. And we turn this time to our Board Chair, Erik Davidson, who is the chair of that particular
working group. He and I will be in discussion about how we may retool that going forward for this year,
but it is a topic near and dear to his and to all of our hearts.
So I'll call upon Director Davidson at this time to give us a report on the revenue diversification working
group. Mr. Chair, the Board, the committee now listens to you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. Much appreciated. I'm happy to provide an
update as well as fields any questions.
The revenue diversification working group did meet on January 8 of this year and we had a couple of
topics that I just wanted to highlight. And again, I'd remind everybody, as always, and certainly available
for discussions and questions offline as well as online here.
One topic that we spent some time on was the investigation of financial metrics and how useful they are
in understanding our place in the broader transit agency community, and also looking at opportunities for
how to communicate with policy makers and other stakeholders, as well as the public at large, about our
financial position and how that relates to other agencies. During this time, Mr. MacLeod, Mr. Davies, and
myself discussed some of the metrics that we have been looking at.
I'd like to just highlight a few of those for the committee to be aware of. Obviously, we won't go into all of
what has been discovered. But we've looked at some interesting metrics, such as the revenue per
unlinked passenger trip, or essentially the revenue per rider that this agency collects. We looked at our
operating expenses, or OpEx, per rider, or unlinked passenger trip. We looked at revenue and OpEx as it
relates to vehicle revenue miles as well.

We also took a very interesting look at how our revenue looks on a per capita basis using our primary
UDA population. All of this was based on data that gets reported to the National Transit Database, which
is especially useful because all of the transit agencies against which we would be interested in comparing
ourselves are submitting similar information.
So it was interesting to look at things such as the revenue collected on a per capita basis, and
understanding that we stand not alone but certainly unique in that we provide commuter rail service, light
rail service, paratransit services, on-demand services, and, of course, fixed route bus services all from a
singular agency for a major metropolitan area for which we are the primary and only multi-modal agency.
So it's a little unique. And this means that when you look at other regions, such as Seattle was an
example, you need to look not just at Sound Transit or King County Metro or Snohomish County but
actually look collectively at all that was delivered.
So we had a discussion around metrics such as those. We do plan to continue that work. We're working
on how we might distill some of what has been discovered about our agency in a way that can be clearly
communicated to the public. I believe this will be a topic of interest and something that we all should
address at the Board level at our upcoming retreat.
And something that we all, I think, chuckled about in the group and is very much true and we've heard
from our General Manager and CEO in the past, when you've seen one transit agency you have seen one
transit agency. So comparisons are very difficult and we are working very hard on how to just quantify for
the sake of the public to understand where we are.
We also did address a standing topic, which is historical information. General Counsel Snyder has done
quite a bit of work on resurfacing and sharing in a shared folder prior work that has been done in this
topic, in this area. I think that's been useful to look at for numerous false starts in the conversation of
revenue diversification and has formed a good basis of facts.
We spent a particular amount of time talking about TABOR as well. This is because Mr. MacLeod and Mr.
Morgan, as well as Ms. Snyder, have done some great work looking at what revenues are subject to
TABOR and understanding the broader backdrop of other entities who have faced the expiration of their
TABOR restrictions. This includes Jefferson County and El Paso County, with whom our staff has been in
contact. And we're starting to get some early estimates. Again, another major topic for the whole Board to
start looking at soon as to how much of our revenue will be subject to TABOR.
We had some discussion around work that the CAC is now doing to also look into some of these issues. I
think this is an all hands on deck research moment. We had an update with regards to some of our
Government Relations activities from Mr. Davies and a discussion around how we might turn some of
what we've discovered, again, into messaging with Mr. Stuart Summers, who also joined us.
With that being said, what I'd say is sometime in the very near future this standing report, I think, will
change to a much broader communication of the things that have been discussed and discovered to this
committee and to the Board. I think the first step in that direction is talking about what we would like to
communicate out to the public and to stakeholders at our upcoming retreat.
And with that, that concludes my report and I'm happy to take any questions. And I'm sure some of the
members of the working group that are present would be happy to elaborate on any one area as well.
Thank you, Mr. Chair.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Board Chair. We appreciate that report. And let me take your
invitation first and say, are there any members of the working group who are with us now who would like
to weigh in and offer any supplement to the report given to us by Erik Davidson?
Hearing none, let me ask whether there are any, first, committee members who have questions of
Director Davidson relative to the working group. I see no hands raised. I'm sorry, Director Ruscha, there
you are. It was a little slow. Perhaps the transcript needs to catch up with us. That said, Director Ruscha,
you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. It's just COVID head, which means I'll keep my comments brief
tonight.
So the information that was referenced, like the information that we report to the federal government, and
I'm assuming also that bank of knowledge that our Chair referenced relative to work that has been done
on this previously is probably all publicly available information, or could be made public. So I'm just
wondering, to that end, I do appreciate the summarization of the agenda. Is it possible that the working
group can share that content with the Board? I think it'd be helpful for not just what was discussed in the
working group but also just our work generally as a Board across both Finance and the Operations side.
So is that information that we might be able to get?
And I also just want to note that things like cost provider and those subsidies and things, the Board used
to get pretty comprehensive reports, at least once a year on that information, even broken down by line.
So if that's information that you're discussing in the group, I think it'd be important for us to also see it, just
so we have it for our knowledge. And if it's not something that you're discussing at that level of granularity,
I would just opine that it would be helpful for the Board to be apprised of that information just moving
forward. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Davidson, if you'd like to respond to that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Ruscha. Appreciate the question.
Absolutely. So first of all, yes, all of this data is public. It's all part of the National Transit Database with
regards to metrics. Some of the going deeper on specific agencies, for example, there are some very high
level buckets of information that aren't well drilled into, we're choosing the right agencies to dive and pick
through and have to go to their individual budgets. But we are working on-- there's a number of things that
we've discussed or looked at that haven't really told us much. Those things that have told us, we're
working on distilling in a way that can be shared out.
So absolutely hear the request. Would be very happy to share it. In the interim, before that exists, I'm also
happy on a one-to-one basis to walk Directors through what we've looked at in the unformatted
meandering calculations that we've done. I think also I'd highlight that there's some areas, while
everything is public, that take some double clicking. For example, one area I think that's of interest to this
Board is that we don't report a substantial amount of money coming from state. Our money comes from
taxes levied directly by the agency. This, in our case, is sales and use tax. State is only broken out at the
NPD level of general fund or transportation fund. And that can mean many different things at different
agencies.

So we're kind of compiling easily available data. What data that we're digging together a little bit more, I'm
happy to walk through that. And you have my commitment that we will have something distilled and well
shared out for the committee and for the Board as a whole.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that response. We appreciate the information. Are there any
other Directors who have any questions for Board Chair Davidson as the head of the working group?
I see no indication so we'll move on from that. And we have on the agenda Recommended Actions next.
There are no recommended actions to come before this committee this evening.
The discussion item that we have relates to the 2024 Finance and Planning Committee work plan. You
will note that we have spoken in the past, you've heard some discussion about this, that each committee,
the Finance and Planning Committee, the Operations and Safety Committee, the Performance
Committee, the Executive Committee, each committee of the RTD will produce now on an annual basis a
work plan. That's intended to be a roadmap so that we and, more importantly, perhaps, our constituents
have an idea as to what it is that the committees are going to be working on throughout the year.
There's a tempo to all of this, for the Finance Committee, in particular, obviously, as it relates to the
budget preparation, which is a huge aspect of what we do at the Finance and Planning Committee. And
as you know, we have begun a process this year of looking for, I guess what I have called the Goldilocks
problem and a solution to it, so that the information that we receive in the budget is not too much and not
too little but just right. And that's something that we're going to be spending a lot of time talking about in
the future.
But in addition to that, there are other items that regularly come before us and special matters as well. In
the first instance, our Board Manager, Jack Kroll, has taken his hand at putting together the draft plan that
is before you in your materials. And so at this time, I would like to recognize Mr. Kroll and have him walk
through his thoughts and efforts relative to this work plan, and then we'll open it up for discussion as a
discussion item, with the anticipation that at our next regular meeting of this committee we would then
proceed to adopt whatever work plan we ultimately revise and approve.
Mr. Kroll, the floor is yours, sir.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. And I'll just give everyone a very brief background
around how this document came to be. This document is really the effective work product of CFO
MacLeod and his team, who forwarded to the Board Office all of what they understand, their best
understanding at the time they forwarded to us, the action items and discussion items they knew they
would need to have with you all over the course of the year to ensure that the Board completed the
necessary actions it must take to keep RTD's financial operations up and running.
The aim of your discussion here is really to-- hopefully you all have taken a look through the work plan as
presented in the Board packet transmitted to you all last week and have some thoughts on additional
items you all might like to see included in this. What will happen following the discussion today is that
Committee Chairman Tisdale and Committee Vice Chairman Guzman will meet with CFO MacLeod to
discuss what you all have heard, based on this discussion, that needs to be included and any additional
outreach that we may receive.
So tonight is certainly an opportunity to chime in and share input on this work plan, but know, too, that
you may email the Board Office, email CFO MacLeod, or either your Committee Chair or Vice Chair, and

let them know of ideas that you would like to see come forward on this work plan and be presented to the
committee as either an action item or a discussion item. So you don't need to solve all the world's
problems tonight, but a first step in solving any issues or addressing any challenges you may have is to
ensure that it ends up on your committee work plan.
So with that, I will yield the floor back to the Chairman of the committee and also suggest that CFO
MacLeod, if he has any additional remarks, be afforded an opportunity to chime in as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. And I would like to call upon our CFO, Doug MacLeod.
And forgive me for not including you as the prime mover and author of this draft plan that we have before
us. Your work throughout has always been greatly appreciated and extremely well done. So let me now
give you an opportunity, Mr. MacLeod, to weigh in on the work plan for the Finance and Planning
Committee.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. I really don't
have anything to add, other than to say that this is a living document, can be added to or subtracted from
throughout the year. So we're very happy to take any feedback. As Mr. Kroll mentioned, I will be meeting
with you, Mr. Chair, as well as Vice Chair Guzman, to go through this plan as well. And I see that Ms.
Johnson would like to add, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. Madam General Manager and CEO, our pleasure
to recognize you now and to ask you to speak to the committee.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Good evening to all. Debra Johnson, General
Manager and CEO.
I just wanted to take this opportunity to say that as we go through the process, I think it's imperative as
you all look at your work plans, i.e. the Board being a committee of the full Board of Directors, take into
consideration the various aspects of policy. I know you're going to have conversations that will ensue at
the Board retreat, but it's critically important, recognizing that this committee makes recommendations
that go forward to the full Board, and in some instances, those policy decisions delegate authority to me
in my capacity as the General Manager and CEO.
So I felt it was necessary for me to put that on the record as we go forward so there's a collective
understanding, as it is a partnership relative to what it is that we're doing, recognizing that you set policy
and we, as staff, basically implement said policy. So wanted everyone to be clued in as to what
expectations would be on both sides of the fence. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Very well said and nice to highlight and reaffirm those important points.
Are there other Directors now, committee members and Directors, who wish to have comments on this
work plan? Let's begin with Director Dishell. You are recognized, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you to staff for the work that went into this report.
I did want to propose two items. The first is pulling forward-- and by forward, I mean earlier into the year-the 2025 fiscal policy. I recognize that this is traditionally done later in the year, as we're getting closer to
budget season. But I also wanted to-- and I noted this in the fall, which is that the fiscal policy helps drive
the budget process. And based on my understanding, you all begin the budget process back in June, if
not earlier, if not as soon as you finish the last budget.

And so to the extent that I know it was discussed on the record voluminously the need to better tweak
what we're looking for in the budget, I think that that item should be pulled forward as early as next month,
if not March. If it's better for Doug and Debra and your team that we break that off separately from the
fiscal policy as a whole, I think that would make sense as well. But I do think it's in everyone's best
interest that we get at least that portion of the fiscal policy really well discussed and ironed out and give
opportunity for it to come back a couple times in this committee, recognizing that it might take more than
once.
The other is-- and Chair Davidson, this may have been in your report and I may have missed it. But it
would be really great to see, as opposed to updates, at some point it would be great to see a plan of
action, a recommendation. And I apologize if I missed that, of when that's coming forward. Right now they
all show as updates. And it would be great to see a commitment just to force the issue one way or
another, just so we're having that accountability there.
And then last but not least is whether we have an update on the transition to zero emission. I know that
that plan is being put into place and that I am 99% confident there are fiscal items in there, or would be.
And that also may be in here and I also may have missed it. I really did read this. And if we could see that
calendared as well, that would, I think, be beneficial for all.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent points all, Director Dishell. Thank you very much for sharing them.
And interestingly, as to your first point, I am reminded of the phrase, everything old is new again. When I
started on this Board in 2017, the habit of the Board was every February to have a planning retreat. We
have retreats now going forward, but they've changed in recent years. The way it began for the first
couple of years, 2017 and '18, and perhaps '19, the retreat that was held in February was a financial
planning retreat to set the goals for the agency for the following year.
So in 2017, we met in February to talk about what our priorities and goals and finance commitments were
going to be in 2018. And we did that because the budget process is such a long and involved one that it
helped that the staff had the listing of priorities and matters of importance for the Board before them as
they were shaping that. So to some extent, you're bringing back some of those same thoughts, and I
greatly appreciate that.
And I am very happy that you mentioned the zero emission vehicle plan as well, because that's
something that we have not had an update on lately and would be very good. And I know the work has
been proceeding. So it would be nice to have that also.
So all three good points. Thank you very much. Director Ruscha, you are now recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I am glad that you just referenced the budget retreats that
the Board used to have. I was just going to bring that up. And I was going to note, it also used to be in our
bylaws-- it's still referenced in our bylaws but not as specific-- and so I would ask whether it is a Board
retreat or a special meeting of this committee that we actually put something on the calendar for us to
have more targeted discussions on our budget process, what we would like to see out of the budget, and
the fiscal policy that Director Dishell just referenced. I think that would really benefit us.
So I don't know if that goes on the committee work plan or if it's another process, but I just wanted to say
on the record that I think we should put it on a calendar and I think that will also help hold us accountable
if something is scheduled. And then to that end, speaking of reports, I personally think that we would

benefit from getting capital projects updates at least quarterly. And so I'm sure there'd be some
discussion on how that works. And if that's something that we can work into our committee work plan, I
think it would benefit all of us, especially because we have some very large projects that are coming
around the bend.
And then I just had a question. This is for staff. We know that we have a lot of major projects, like
downtown light rail, and contracts will also come with those. Is there anything that you anticipate adding
to this calendar in the next month before it's finalized relative to the budget that we just passed? Or is that
something that might be on the Operations calendar?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. And let me look to Mr. MacLeod in the first
instance to see if he has any particular information that he would care to share with us at this time in
response to Director Rush's remarks.
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, if I may defer to General Manager Johnson and then fill in any gaps after
that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And I just saw her hand go up. So Madam General Manager/CEO, you are
recognized.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Actually, my hand was up and I wanted to make
reference to a comment that you made relative to the facilities and fleet transition plan as it related to not
receiving updates. We have been providing written updates in the Board briefing documents, recognizing
that we have just commenced with some scenario planning.
And so I wanted to be clear that staff has shared information. As we go forward, recognizing the plans
that have been outlined, it may behoove this group to have those come to Operations, recognizing that
we're talking about our core business, which is deploying transit services and what that might entail,
recognizing that it is our intent to have a facilities and fleet transition plan made available by December 15
of 2024. That is a planning document which we have to take a myriad of things under consideration.
So from the vantage point of basically forecasting out dollars at this juncture, that would be somewhat
premature on some aspects of it, because this wouldn't be a wholesale transition as related to our
facilities. We have to first discern what might be our best course of action and looking at alternatives,
alternatively fueled propulsion systems going forward. And there's a myriad of other factors that come into
play.
So that's why my hand was raised. But Mr. MacLeod, you could start addressing the other question and
then I'm happy to supplement. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to clarify as relates to
the facility and fleet transition plan endeavor.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I need to say that as soon as those words escaped my
mouth, I realized that they were inartfully expressed in terms of having a, if you will, a public statement
out loud at a meeting about that. But yes, of course, we have been getting those written updates, which
are appreciated, and, despite my comment, not ignored.
Mr. MacLeod, now if you can respond further to Director Ruscha's comments.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question.

And yes, there will be periodic updates, as you've requested. What we've been working on internally, at
the most recent Audit Committee meeting with Chair Dishell, a request was put in for staff to work with our
internal auditors to look at best practices in terms of budget reporting and the like. We also have many
notes from the discussions that were held during the budget approval process in November.
So staff is diligently working through General Manager Johnson to come up with a new proposed format,
new proposed information, and we intend to update the Audit Committee, as well as the Finance
Committee, along the way in coordination with the Chair and the Vice Chair of the Finance Committee at
the appropriate time.
Currently, we're getting everything scheduled to do cap walks, basically a capital walkthrough on a
quarterly basis internally, and we can share that information as well to the Finance Committee to give
updates on those projects. As General Manager Johnson mentioned, some of those are still in the
development phase, such as the downtown loop, so the information will come. Those are larger projects.
Those will definitely come forward to the Board. But we can give periodic updates and listings of the
approved capital schedules that were budgeted for 2024 to this committee.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I appreciate your being able to supplement that information.
That's helpful.
Let me-- I see Director Ruscha's hand is up. Madam General Manager, let me just go back to her first
here and see if she has further comment or supplement following that response by Mr. MacLeod, our
Chief Financial Officer. Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Oh.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry, Mr. Chair, did you mean to recognize me or our GM/CEO?
DOUG TISDALE: No, I'm sorry. And she has taken her hand down. And I was going to you first, because
I know it was directly responsive to Mr. MacLeod's comments.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. I couldn't keep up with the transcript and the screen. Thank you.
So thank you, Mr. MacLeod, for that update and that information. Something that I would like some
clarification on as it relates to the work plan, the draft in front of us, is also about our mid-year financial
update, though. I've only been on the Board for a year and I wasn't on this committee but I remember last
year we focused a lot on revenue projection, which obviously is very important.
But when I think about budget and budget updates, I also think about-- or when I think about financial
updates-- excuse me-- I think about budgets that we passed. And that includes budgets versus actuals,
which would also, again, include things like the line items for capital projects, staffing projections, and the
like. And I was just wondering if that might also incorporate its way into a mid-year financial update or if
the mid-year financial update would stay the same as it has been in the last couple of years, in terms of
format and the data reported.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, let me ask if you can at this time respond to that or if you want to defer
and provide a later response in more detail? But in the first instance, the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you for the question. Yeah, that's a new item
actually that we wanted to present to the committee, where we stood mid-year budget versus actual, both

from an operating expense standpoint, revenues, as well as all other expenditures, including capital. The
idea behind that timing is mid-year is kind of a good time to give a full-fledged update as we get into the
really serious budgeting process.
But in addition, there's also the Office of the State Auditor is scheduled to wrap up their audit mid-year. ,
And they're looking at the financial position of RTD, as well as there's a-- the FTA is performing a triennial
review of the agency. That will begin-- that has begun with data being provided by the end of February.
So all these things are kind of coming together at once.
The audited financial statements will also be available at that time from 2023, so we should have a really
good set of numbers to set the stage for how we've performed as an agency through mid-year as well as
going into next year. So yes, that's the intent of that discussion item. So thank you for pointing that out.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. We appreciate that.
Other comments from Directors. And again, let me just bring to your attention what we said in the Board
report, the committee report for this discussion item, where we said that the Directors can provide input
on items they would like to see scheduled in the work plan that are not already included in the draft
document. So this is a chance. It is not the only chance. It is a chance for you to propose things for the
work plan. And then following this discussion, the staff and the Chair and the Vice Chair of this committee
will be making further revisions to this plan, with the view toward presenting it for your consideration and
Board recommendation at our February 13 meeting.
All that said, Mr. Board Chair Davidson, you are recognized, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to respond to a comment by Director Dishell. I had
the same adjustment to suggest, that we don't just keep the updates from the revenue diversification
working group throughout the entire year. I think I'd like to give some thought and consideration, along
with Mr. MacLeod and with you, Mr. Chair Tisdale, this committee, as to when would be appropriate to
bring forward some more of a detailed update, as well as some suggestions and next steps.
Again, I think some of that will be clear in the retreat, but I just wanted to note for the record that Director
Dishell, we're in full alignment. And Chair Tisdale, I'd like to work with you to find the appropriate time to
include that into the work plan, in conjunction with Mr. MacLeod as well. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And that is exactly what we would like to see happen. So yes, that is on our
mutual agenda and we will be pursuing that.
Further comments by any Director, committee members or otherwise, relative to the work plan that is
presented to you in draft and will be revised and resubmitted for the February 13 Board meeting,
committee meeting.
Seeing none, again, this is not your only opportunity. Between now and when the Board Office, along with
our CFO Doug MacLeod, actually present a revised plan, you will have an opportunity to weigh in with
additional things that you would like to have in there. In the first instance, we really are looking for this to
be a Christmas tree. Hang an ornament on it if you want something there, go on ahead and let us know.
The committee then will make a determination as to whether such item should be made formally a part of
the work plan or whether it's just something that we make note of.

That said, we have concluded our discussion on the discussion item regarding the work plan and we turn
to other matters. Are there any other matters that any member of the committee would like to bring
forward at this time?
Director Guzman. Mr. Vice Chair, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I don't need an answer particularly on any of these right now, but I do have a couple
of questions regarding Finance and Planning, because we are the fiduciary agents of the RTD.
So a big one that I have, and I have given CEO Johnson a heads up on this as well, was the Denver
Union Station work that's being done and touted in all of the local newspapers. There's a huge investment
from our lessee and the DUS work group for some work that's going to be done in the building. And I just
want to make sure that we're all apprised of that, because we are the deed owner. And indeed taxpayers,
did pay for that building. So we want to make sure that we keep our eye on that.
I'd like to get some more information about what's going on and ensure that the safety, the protection of
the architectural history of Denver is not hurt or destroyed in that process in any way, and that we have a
good working relationship with our lessees, but also that the public has access to the Great Hall, to the
building itself, and to the public restrooms that are therein for access to our trains and our conveyance
systems. So that's one thing that I think we need to keep an eye on.
Question about Director passes for the year 2024. Again, I don't need a direct answer tonight, but I would
like to find out more information about that. And if there's an issue there, perhaps Finance and Planning
can take that up for policy direction.
The bus stop study that we approved funds for last year, I'd like to find out an update about where we're
at with that and if any contracts have been made or if the work has commenced, because I think that's
going to be really important to continuing work within our region.
And then finally, I was going to bring it up, but it already got brought up, was the fleet transition study. And
there are some really good points in our Board packet that were brought up with the five specific areas,
but with fleet modeling being the first major project task. So thank you for that update, CEO Johnson. I
really do appreciate that that was in there and I'm excited to learn more about that.
That's all I've got. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate your sharing all that with us.
Director Broom, you are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I wonder if we might get a brief update on how the District operated
during the last 30, 36 hours, when the temperature got down to 19 below zero. Did we have a lot of trips
that were canceled or were we able to maintain our schedules and so forth?
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate the question and I think it might more properly come up tomorrow evening
before Operations and Safety. But that said, let me allow General Manager to give us a sneak preview of
what might be said tomorrow at the Operations and Safety Committee relative to the question raised by
Director Broom. Madam General Manager/CEO, your thoughts.

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Director Broom, for the
question. Recognizing what I'm going to share is anecdotal, as I've yet to have a meeting more specific to
the circumstance surrounding it, but recognizing that our system, worst case scenario, is supposed to be
operated within 0 degrees Fahrenheit. We were below that.
When you look at our infrastructure holistically, there are some things that were done years ago relative
to our infrastructure with some elevators we had problems with, because at a point in time a decision was
made to procure elevators that were manufactured to be used indoors as opposed to outdoors, which had
some issues. Quite naturally, since we do have rail that's slightly older, we encountered some challenges
prior to the freezing levels that we had this weekend relative to seeing some cracks. And we had to do
some welding and do some rail replacement.
More specifically, as I have shared with members of the leadership team, specifically our AGM of Rail,
looking at doing things that could keep our system perhaps in a better place by running what I would
qualify as sweeper trains to keep the track warm and lubricated and things of the like. But we could
provide a much more in-depth assessment, more specifically recognizing the working conditions and, I
would say, traveling conditions. Of course, we had some call outs, which is to be expected contingent
upon where people live across this vast region.
But I would offer up that I would provide a more detailed report that could provide some better data, as
opposed to speaking to you off the cuff anecdotally. And I don't know if that's feasible for tomorrow
evening, but I will ensure that no later than the Board meeting, when I provide my oral report, I could
provide you a much more in-depth analysis of what took place, recognizing the unprecedented weather
that we saw within our operating environment. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much. You know, this is hard on staff as well. And so it does need the
Board's attention. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. And thank you very much, Madam General
Manager for that.
Any other items from other Directors? I've got one that I will bring forward in a moment. Any other items,
other matters from Directors or committee members?
Seeing none, let me advise everyone that the American Public Transportation Association Transit Board
Member Committee will be presenting its first Board talk live session tomorrow. That's Wednesday at 1:00
Mountain Standard Time. And it will be with Beth Holbrook, a trustee from the Utah Transit Authority and
the Chair of the Transit Board Members Legislative Committee at APTA.
And this one is called "Making the Economic Case for Transit." And it's to provide us with information and
tools so that we can communicate with electeds and other policy makers relative to the economic impact
that transit has on regions. And it promises to be a very interesting discussion. That's tomorrow, 1:00
Mountain Standard Time. If you do not have the link saved in your mailbox, please contact me and I will
forward you the link so that you can enjoy and join in that discussion.
There being no other business to come before this committee at this time, we are prepared to have a
motion to adjourn this committee. And Mr. Kroll, may I just confirm with you that it's anticipated that we
should stay on line for purposes of the Performance Committee to follow this committee. Is that correct?

JACK KROLL: That is correct, Doug. We indicated to everyone that the Performance Committee meeting
would start five minutes following the conclusion of the Finance and Planning Committee meeting. You all
are scheduled to go in, to at least hold a vote to go into an executive session for the Performance
Committee meeting. That is not this Zoom link, but you stay on this Zoom link for the public portion.
Should the committee vote to go into executive session for the Performance Committee, you have
already received a subsequent link that you would join for that portion.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you for refreshing our memories on the logistics for that. So relative to-was there a question?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Chair Tisdale, I'm sorry. CEO Johnson has her hand raised. I don't know if that's
just a leftover.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh. And I'm sorry, I did not see it. I think it was a carryover, right? Thank you very
much. OK.
So at this point in time, knowing that we will then be in a five minute recess and reconvene with the
Performance Committee, let me ask for a motion to adjourn the Finance and Planning Committee
meeting. Is there a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I see a motion. Is there a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a second. Is there any discussion on that motion? There is none. All those in
favor indicate by saying aye. Aye. Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously.
Therefore, at 6:27 PM Mountain Standard Time, the Finance and Planning Committee stands adjourned.
And we will now take a five-minute break. Let's assume that it will be at 6:33 PM that we will come back
with the Performance Committee. Thank you all very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, Mr. Chair. See you all at 6:33.

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:

Nicolas Fite
Friday, January 12, 2024 5:45 PM
RTD Board Office
greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com
Advertising Wraps on RTD Buses and Trains

Dear RTD Directors and Staff,
I am writing to express my support for the RTD Board to adopt a policy that prohibits advertising wrap
from covering bus or train windows.
One of the best features of RTD buses & trains is their large windows which allow you to admire the
beautiful state of Colorado as you sit back & enjoy the ride. In addition, being able to see out of the
vehicle is a big aid in helping riders identify their stop to get off at.
Unfortunately, some RTD vehicles have advertising wrap which prevents this as it covers the vehicle side
from top to bottom. This cheapens the experience for riders & is not in line with a quality transit
experience or a “welcoming transit environment”, which RTD claims it aims to provide. Advertising wrap
over windows can also pose a safety and security issue as it reduces the rider’s overall view of their
surroundings.
Therefore, I request that the RTD Board adopts a policy that prohibits advertising wrap from covering bus
or train windows.
Yours sincerely,
Nic Fite

1

