Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, September 4,
2012
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

September 10, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
September 4, 2012.
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Member
Absent:
Staff Present:

Others Present:

Committee Chair Bagley; Directors Anderson, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, and
Walker.

Chair Kemp
Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson,
Austin Jenkins, Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott
Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp,
Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood, Pranaya Shrestha, Patrick
McLaughlin, Brenden Summers,
Ferd Belz, Brian Cohen, Dana Crawford, Jane Donovan Sherman
Hamilton, Walter Isenberg, Jim Johnson, David Lewis, Joe Racusley,
Jacob Riger, Jeanne Shreve, Julie Skeen, Bob Wilson
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Updates
Transit Oriented Development
Bill Sirois and Kate Iverson provided the Board with a Power Point presentation on
Transit Oriented Development.
Committee Chair Bagley stated that he believes the Board can really seen the efforts
that have been taken in relation to Transit Oriented Development as presented in the
Power Point. He acknowledged that there are four Directors that have a project in their
district: Director Anderson with the Arvada Project, Director James with P4 project at
Alameda, Director Cohen with the GSA Lakewood Site, and Director Deadwyler with
the Welton Corridor.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, September 4,
2012
Page 2 of 4

Committee Chair Bagley asked how the design guidelines prepared by RTD were being
received. Bill Sirois said that they are generally being received very positively. He
explained that they were created so they do not compete with the local zoning
regulations but just enhance them. The goal is to cover certain items that RTD would
want to address but would never need to be addressed within local zoning regulations.
Director Deadwyler noted that there is a slide for Welton Street but that Bill Sirois did
not discuss it. She asked if there was anything going on at that location. Director
Deadwyler also asked when we expect the Denver Urban Renewal “blight” study to be
complete. Bill Sirois explained that RTD has not done a great deal of proactive work
over the past three months since the Board was given the last TOD update. Bill
explained that the Urban Renewal Authority has gone to the community and had
several public meetings that Mike Turner attended. The business district has been
having separate meetings with some of the property owners along the corridor about
redeveloping. He explained that as a result of the ULI Charrette, RTD learned that
looking at our property in isolation does not make a lot of sense. We need to look at
this as a synergistic project. We have been monitoring and coordinating with the
business community DURA over the last few months. He stated that his understanding
was that the study recommendations would be presented to the Denver City Council
the week of September 10th. The city council would then need to approve the results
of the study for an Urban Renewal area to be formed.
Director Tayer thanked the team for their work on this project. He believes it is such a
value to our transit investments. He also thanked the team for reaching out to him
personally with respect to the development in Boulder. He encouraged the other
Directors to meet with the team as he feels it can be strategically helpful in
understanding the TOD opportunities in their area. Director Tayer mentioned that he,
Chair Kemp, Committee Chair Bagley and Director Hoy went to the Bus Rapid Transit
conference in Las Vegas the previous week. He stated that he believed it would be
valuable if there could be a presentation on BRT during the next update. He is feels
that many people have insecurities about BRT because they do not realize that it is a
catalyst for development just like a rail line. Bill Sirois stated that the team has worked
with our consultants who have done a lot of work with BRT to put together a Power
Point that has been shared with some of the stakeholders. He stated that he would
share that with the Board.
Director James asked if the TOD guidelines developed by RTD were available in writing
for the Board. He shared that he has recently done a TOD presentation for his
professional association in San Diego and will soon be doing another presentation For
Housing Colorado in Vail. He believes these guidelines will be valuable to have
available. Bill Sirois said he would send them to the Board.
Director James stated that one of the critical ingredients in real estate is often the
buyer getting the necessary financing. He asked if staff had any information about
how D4 was doing getting the financing for the apartment development they are
proposing. Kate Iverson explained that this is why they are out for RFP right now. D4

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, September 4,
2012
Page 3 of 4

needs numbers from the contractors to firm up the last of the financing. She stated
that they have gone out to get an IGMP (Initial Guaranteed Maximum Price) which will
be a capped price they can then use to get the initial financing.
Director Tobiassen shared that he read about the Denver TOD guidelines and he
thought they seemed to be very complete. Bill Sirois explained that he would equate
what Denver is doing to the Strategic Plan that was approved by the Board in 2010.
Bill stated that the guidelines are meant to be an Urban Design document which is a
little different from the Strategic Plan.
Director Tobiassen asked if staff was working with the City of Aurora planners to
include them in the process. He wanted to make sure that we talk to the City about
parking strategies. He also noted near the Yale Light Rail station there are 60 units of
elderly housing and no elevator to get to the platform. He asked if an elevator was
included in future plans. Bill Sirois confirmed that staff has been working with Aurora
and he has been personally speaking with John Hernandez about parking. He also
confirmed that an elevator is in the plans for Yale.
Several Directors asked how affordable housing decisions were made. They wanted to
know how it was determined if this was elderly housing versus low income and what
criteria needed to be met to be deemed “affordable housing”. Bill Sirois explained that
this is something defined by the local jurisdiction and we defer to them.
Denver Union Station
Walter Isenberg began by stating that since the last update given to the Board, the
Union Station Alliance team has been having extensive dialog with the National Park
Service. He shared that he traveled to Washington to meet with them for a face-toface meeting that lasted about five hours so they could work through some of the
complicated issues. Walter stated that USA had resubmitted their design earlier in the
day (August 4). He believes they are very close to a resolution with NPS that will allow
USA to proceed without filing an appeal. Walter explained that they expect to have the
results within two weeks and would inform the Board and staff of the outcome. He
stated that the design has not materially changed from what was originally designed.
Director Hoy stated that he understands this process has not gone as quickly as we
hoped. He asked how it would affect the schedule of the project. Walter Isenberg
believes the most critical stage of the project is getting Amtrak back into the station.
He explained that USA understands what needs to get built in order to get Amtrak in
and they think they can complete those items within the time frame; however, there
would still be construction occurring for several months after Amtrak moved back in.
Bill Sirois informed the Board that staff has been moving forward with the Wynkoop
plazas. He shared that letters have been sent to stakeholders as well as local public
space experts to address the issue of maintenance and management of the plazas and
we are going to hold meetings to discuss. He stated that staff would be coming back
to the Board with an update after the meetings. Bill believes that at the end of the

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, September 4,
2012
Page 4 of 4

process staff will come to the Board with a recommendation for the plazas but will not
know what that is until the process is complete. He stated that hopefully the meetings
will start at the end of the month.
Director McMullen asked when DaVita will occupy their new building. Bill Sirois stated
that at least a portion of the staff moved in last month.
Director Bagley stated that from his perspective, everything that has been done with
Denver Union Station has been open and transparent. He believes this is from the
staff’s good work and the attention the Board has paid to the project. He believes it
has been demonstrated to the entire region the benefits this project will have.
II. Other Matters
III. Next Meeting Date – October 16, 2012
IV. Adjourn
Committee Chair Bagley adjourned the meeting at 6:09 p.m. to the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee Meeting.

