2021-08-17
Operations & Customer Service Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, everybody. Heads up, 1-minute warning. And Brenda, if you're listening in, I want
you to know that you will be coming up shortly here. So I'll let you know when.
BRENDA CARNEY: Great.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, that's five minutes. I have a bunch of stuff to read. So everybody can join in as they
come back. The Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting is now called to order at 6:19. I
would respectfully ask that everyone attending mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. As was
stated earlier, thank you for joining us.
Under current circumstances, we continue to have the Board of Directors meeting held remotely in the
interest of public health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, they will be held via Zoom. And
these meetings will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as possible on the Board's website. You can visit our rtddenver.com. Scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during this committee
meeting, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you before proceeding to speak. I would
also like to remind everybody that you can raise your virtual hand if you're on the phone by pressing star
nine, and you can mute and unmute by pressing star six.
We are not taking public commentary during this committee meeting, also. Members of the public
interested in speaking directly to the Board are, again, encouraged to do so during the monthly Board
meeting. Those meetings can be found at the Board's meeting portal at rtd.iqm2.com.
Please note that the format of this committee meeting has been amended to move one of the discussion
items, the ADA Paratransit Advisory Committee report to the front of the recommended action. And the
second discussion item, transit asset management, has been rescheduled to a later date. We will now
proceed. Mr. Ford, would you like to address the ADA Paratransit Advisory Committee report?
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Michael Ford, COO. I'd like to, at this time, introduce Brenda
Carney of the APAC Committee to provide an update of the summary of the May 11, 2021 APAC
meeting. She will be able to answer questions and provide any other context that she would like to do. So
Brenda, at this time, would you mind speaking?

BRENDA CARNEY: Sure. So this is the summary of the APAC meeting for May 11. First on the agenda,
there was a new selection for doing these Board updates. The APAC Committee approved Tex Elam to
continue these updates.
The next agenda items was updates from Larry Buter. First was a COVID update. During the height of
COVID, COVID capacity was one driver for each rider. Capacity has now increased to five riders per
driver, four to one in the smaller vehicles. Masks are still required until CDC guidance has changed.
The next update was concerning fourth quarter stats. This is a comparison between all of 2019 and all of
2020. There was a 56% decrease in demand due to COVID. Complaints were relatively low, partially due
to high driver supply for lower rider demand. Last October, there was a pilot initiated for Uber On Demand
service. This was phase one for those who can ride in sedans and with fold-up wheelchairs.
The next update was on the mobile app web portal. A new feature was developed to allow riders to let
their drivers know that they can be picked up early. It's not always possible to do that. But hopefully, that
will increase efficiency for both RTD and the clients.
The next update was-- well, let's see. OK, so the next thing was eligibility-- yes, I can talk-- eligibility
vendor selection process and recommendation. Four proposals were reviewed by a selection committee,
which included a current and former APAC member. Medical Transportation Management, Inc. was
unanimously recommended and was subsequently selected.
The prior vendor's contract was up in April. And the current contract is not effective until September.
There was a request for volunteers so that MTM could have practice eligibility assessments. These
volunteers are going to do these assessments this week, as a matter of fact.
So the next thing on the agenda was vehicle specification review process. RTD Maintenance asked for
APAC volunteers to give input since their input last round resulted in better vehicles that were purchased.
So the volunteers that reviewed the specs had a meeting in June to review those specs with RTD
maintenance.
The last thing on the agenda was, there is a phase two pilot for the Uber On Demand. And that has to do
with-- the riders that are involved are-- hang on. Sorry. They need wheelchair accessible vehicles. And
those are driven by MB operators.
So suggestions were solicited. And if the committee has any suggestions, those will be submitted to
Marketing. And that's the review.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Brenda. Mr. Ford, do you have anything you want to add?
MICHAEL FORD: No. I just want to thank Brenda for her report. And no, I do not. Thank you.
BRENDA CARNEY: Great. My pleasure.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Brenda. OK, so that was one of our discussion items. As I said earlier, the
other discussion item has been rescheduled for a later date. So we will now proceed to the recommended
action portion of our committee meeting tonight. We have one recommended action, which is for the
Board of Directors to adopt responses to the recommendations outlined in the RTD Accountability
Committee Final Report. Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second, Rosenthal.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you both. Before we go to discussion, I would like to read the information and
background that was presented with this action.
"In collaboration with the Board of Directors, the Accountability Committee was created in July 2020 by
Governor Jared Polis, along with Representative Matt Gray and Senator Faith Winter, then Chairs of the
Colorado General Assembly's Standing Committees Responsible for the Oversight of Transportation
Matters. The purpose of the committee was to provide an independent and objective analysis of RTD's
operations and to develop a set of recommendations for improvement to the operations and statutes
related to RTD.
"The committee, comprised of legislative and gubernatorial appointees, two ex officio members from the
RTD Board of Directors, and supported by staff assistants from the Denver Regional Council of
Governments, established three subcommittees to facilitate discussions around three main focal points-governance, finance, and operations. The committee held its first meeting on August 10, 2020 and met on
a regular basis through its final meeting, which was July 12, 2021. RTD Board members and staff
attended and participated in the committee's meetings, as did General Manager and CEO Debra
Johnson, following her appointment and installation in November of 2020.
"RTD received the committee's final report on July 20, 2021, establishing September 23, 2021 as the date
by which RTD must respond to the recommendations contained in the report. The committee's
recommendations were divided into nine general subject matters-- areas, general subject matter areas
with related individual recommendations grouped within the following headings.
"Spend federal COVID-19 relief funds to rebuild ridership and improve operations, improve operator
retention, develop subregional service councils, explore Board structure modifications subject to
additional study and input, explore FasTracks options, improved reporting metrics and transparency,
improved fixed route and paratransit service provision, leveraged partnerships for resources and
services-- oh, where did I go? Am I still on my list? I am. Simplify fares and pass programs.
"RTD has addressed each of the recommendations in the response, noting whether the agency agrees,
partially agrees, or disagrees with each of the 43 individual recommendations posed by the committee.

While the implementation of the committee's recommendations will create budgetary impacts, there is no
direct fiscal impact associated with the adoption of this recommended action."
That concludes the background of the recommended action. I'd now like to ask our CEO and General
Manager, Debra Johnson, to speak to this matter. Please note that following her input, I will call on each
Director. Miss Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair, and good evening all. If I could ask for staff to pull up
the presentation, I would greatly appreciate it.
So thank you. As introduced, I'm Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. And I appreciate the
opportunity to summarize the themes identified from feedback to staff responses to the Accountability
Committee's recommendations. Before I delve into the matter at hand this evening, I want to extend my
hearty thanks to the Accountability Committee for its efforts and thought that went toward crafting the
recommendations over the last year and for its commitment to optimizing the agency to be the best-inclass.
Thank you to staff for expending countless hours attending meetings, coordinating with DRCOG, and
providing supplemental information and more. Last, but not least, I want to thank you, the Board, for your
guidance and perspective during this process. And a special thanks to First Vice Chair Guissinger and
Director Whitmore for serving as the ex officio members to the Accountability Committee.
This evening, and seeing the slide before you with the overview you heard from Chair Williams, as relates
to the nine main categories that comprise the recommendations. So the purpose of the effort among staff
was to gather feedback from Board members individually and to share that feedback with other members
for sake of transparency, to consolidate and align members' comments into themes, and to facilitate
discussion of possible amendments to the response document based upon the themes identified.
Before we proceed, it is important to note that staff either agreed or partially agreed with almost every
recommendation made by the Accountability Committee. Of the individual recommendations, staff agreed
entirely with three of them and partially with an additional 16. Staff disagreed only with one
recommendation for reasons I will explain in a moment. As you know, during my past nine months, I have
heard from several entities and people RTD is the agency of no. Well, RTD is not. RTD is a regional
partner, a collaborator, an innovator, and a vital connection in making lives better. With implementation of
the agency's strategic plan, which addresses a myriad of recommendations made by the Accountability
Committee, RTD is striving to become best-in-class amongst transit agencies.
The single recommendation with which staff disagreed-- that is, the recommendation regarding
consolidation of discounted fares to cover equity population-- is, in many ways, obviated by the systemwide Fair Study and Equity Analysis currently underway. The equity analysis is consistent with Title XI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and with guidance from the Federal Transit Administration. Outreach
conducted as part of the study will include specific groups, including those serving Black, Indigenous, and

people of color, youth, seniors, persons with disabilities, persons who are experience homelessness,
veterans, and the LGBTQIA+ communities.
At this time, I will turn to feedback submitted by Directors regarding the Accountability Committee's
recommendation. So next slide, please. As you can see on the slide before you, the themes that were
identified from Board's comments were around sharing funds with external entities and offering short-term
fare recommendations. What I'd like to share, just for the Board's edification, is a gentle reminder
regarding federal relief funding and its permissible uses.
Public transit providers may use it for payroll, including private, public transportation providers.
Additionally, public transit operating costs during the public health emergency, personal protective
equipment is included, as well as operations and contractor personnel, administrative leave due to
service reductions. For point of clarity, I want to say that we have publicly committed-- and when I say we,
collectively as staff, and we have shared this with the Board and with the Accountability Committee-- that
$14 million has been committed to the accountability recommendations, along with the two peer reviews
performed by the American Public Transportation Association, as well as recommendations from the
Office of the State Auditor. The funds to be expended will be a swap with sales and use tax, not a direct
usage of federal funds. So I just wanted to share that as well.
Moving on forward to the next slide, please. As related to the State Performance Audit, the one thing that
we got from comments received by you as the Board was to clarify the supervisor one-on-one and
manager training skill set. So in reference to that comment, that's easily doable in the sense that we as
staff will qualify what that means. And some of those elements include developing and enhancing
supervisorial and front-line employees' training programs for teamwork improvement as we talk about
employee recognition, implementing a top operator program, and developing appraisal and feedback
programs, and also instituting formal exit interview and tracking processes. And then of course, working
condition enhancements and things of the like, we will include that in the responses.
Next slide, please. So as relates to the governance executive leadership and the Service Councils, what
we did glean from the responses from the Board that there did not appear to be a consensus relative to
travel sheds or county boundary concepts. One thing's for certain, I will share is that staff supports the
travel shed modeling, recognizing further that, as relates to the Accountability Committee's
recommendation, that regional stakeholder working group will be established to evaluate best-suited
service council models.
Going on to the next slide, please? So as it relates to the RTD Board structure, the common theme was
that the Board is directly elected by a constituency, and if there should be changes made to the Board
structure, that the voice of the voters should guide that. So as we stated, I don't believe there were any
other elements around that, aside from what is established on the slide before you. The Accountability
Committee, as you know, did suggest a follow-up and review after a two-year period after other
recommendations, such as our strategic plan, have been implemented for a period of time. It also is
important to note, as relates to the performance review that is conducted by the Office of the State

Auditor at the legislative level, that this will be an area that they will assess when that comes to fruition in
the next two years.
Moving forward to the next slide, please? As it relates to the prioritization relative to FasTracks project, we
did have common themes around Board members' comments as relates to all unfinished projects should
be considered for future analysis. And as it relates, the Front Range Passenger Rail did note that, as
relates to the alignment and so forth, that through an environmental process conducted by a separate
entity, that will be identified.
Moving forward to the next slide, please. So the performance and financial reporting transparency-- as
you can see here on the slide, the themes revolved around strengthening regional leadership roles as
relates to where we stand as an organization with climate goals and transit's environmental impact. And
then additionally, the theme was that our strategic plan does address the operational effectiveness and
financial transparency. And as you all are aware, there are tactics and metrics regarding environmental
stewardship in the course of the strategic plan. And also, there will be performance scorecards and other
published reports that are provided on a quarterly basis that will demonstrate the agency's ongoing
commitment to transparency.
Moving forward to the next slide, as relates to service-- and I'll qualify it as customers as opposed to
riders, considering our customer-centric emphasis on people paying for our service-- that the agency is
committed to continuously improving accessibility for all customers. In relationship to the theme here, it's
improving access to customer amenities. And I qualify those as being bus stops in reference to access
with transit shelters and other aspects of gaining direct access to leverage our services.
And we want to point out that we, as an agency, will continue to work with jurisdictional partners to ensure
new or relocated fixed route stops are accessible. And also, in some instances where they are state
highways, collaborating with Colorado Department of Transportation, and also as well looking to continue
and enhance first-last mile connections.
Moving forward to the next slide, so partnerships-- the one theme that was very paramount and evident
was leveraging innovative and outside-of-the-box mobility solution partnerships. And I don't believe
there's any further clarity needed on that one, but just recognizing collaboratively in the sense of Denver
metro area has nationally been recognized for regional collaboration models, and RTD has prided itself
on being a key partner in all of that. So as we go forward, it's imperative that we develop clear processes
for partners to submit partnership requests that will also spur innovation.
Moving on to the next slide, so this is the fare and pass programs. As mentioned earlier, we know there's
a system-wide Fair Study and Equity Analysis underway. And those were the comments that resonated
throughout the responses from the Board. And as noted as well, as we go forward, this is one of the
areas in which we did disagree, recognizing that we do have a robust-- first for this organization-comprehensive Fair Study and Equity Analysis that is taking place. And in the confines of the strategic
plan, there are several elements as relates to equity, inclusion, belonging, as well as justice and societal

norms across the Board relative to what we plan to do from a transit equity point of view as it relates to
that.
So at this juncture, this provides a high-level overview of the themes. And now I will yield the floor back to
you, Madam Chair, to facilitate discussions relative to questions. Thank you very kindly.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, General Manager CEO Johnson. We are now going to go around the room,
as it were-SHELLEY COOK: May I ask a quick clarifying question before we go into the discussion round, Madam
Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Debra Johnson, have you-- I'm just trying to get a handle on whether there are any
changes planned for the document based on Director's comments, or if you will wait until comments
tonight. And then how will you process those? I'm just trying to get a handle on the process here of
getting to a final document.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: You may.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, ma'am. As I stated, the intent here was to ensure that there
was transparency in the process. Being the General Manager and CEO and a member of staff, I did not
feel it was appropriate for me to unilaterally decide what comments went into the document, recognizing
that there were some themes but there were other questions. And so going through the high-level aspect
of what was contained when members of my team and so forth went through the document, we hope to
garner some understanding and consensus around what the responses should be relative to where we
look at the [INAUDIBLE], for instance, and the county boundaries. As I said, there was no consensus by
the Board.
However, we as staff have one thought. So we needed to collectively have a discussion. So as relates to
how we're going to do this, I have a member of my team that's going to be taking copious notes relative to
what we hear. I'm more than willing to relay that to all of you if we arrive around the consensus as it
relates to what the response should be relative to the areas that are outlined in those nine major areas.
And in doing so, there's two options that will be available during the course of this discussion this evening.
If, in fact, there's agreement around what should be changed, we can make an amendment, read that
back, so we can incorporate it in. Secondly, if there's greater work that needs to be done, then we, as
staff, are willing to take that back, redraft a response, and turn it around and provide it to the Board in
quick order to give you the adequate information we need to do to make an informed decision.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: We're going to go around the room. And I see your hand, Director Guissinger. And you
will be called on in alphabetical order. I'm going to go around. I'm going to call on the Directors one at a
time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: May I make just introductory comments, having been on the Accountability-PEGGY CATLIN: No. No, you may not.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm going to go around the room for input, feedback, questions, and comments from all
members of the Board. I'm not going to ask the staff to respond to each Director individually. We're going
to hear from all directors. Then we will come back to the General Manager and any of her staff that she
wishes to call on. And then we will go around the room again. And we can do this all night until everybody
feels that they've been heard and their questions have been answered.
I'm fine with that. I have asked Director Rosenthal, who is the Vice Chair of this committee, to speak first.
And then I'm going to call on Director Bouquet next. Then after that, it will be Director Broom, and so on in
alphabetical order. You will all get to speak as much and as long as you would like. And we will continue
the discussion until everybody is comfortable with the results. Director Rosenthal, would you speak to us
for a moment?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I'll reserve my comments and
questions in regards to the Accountability Report later. But I just wanted to just really point out how
extraordinarily well done and detailed the responses are. It is very obvious that the staff and leadership of
RTD has spent quite a bit of time-- countless hours, I think that General Manager Johnson pointed out.
And it's obvious they spent quite a few hours really doing their due diligence and good responses to the
lengthy Accountability Report that RTD received. So I just have to commend them all, thank them all for
their work.
Obviously, everybody has other tasks that they're working on, other projects, crises, things like that. And
this really was really well done. And I wanted to thank everyone from top to bottom on their work on this
project. And thank you very much, Madam Chair.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Bouquet. Please be aware that you're not
going to get a direct answer from the state-- from the staff. You won't get one from the state either. But,
that we are happy to hear all of your input.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Well, thank you, Madam Chair. My input-- I'm just going to focus on one
area. First off, I want to thank everyone responsible for putting in all the time and effort into this report
getting drawn up. Of course, I'm going to save my comments specifically for those that I'm most
concerned about. I actually agreed with a lot of the recommendations that were put forward. The area I'm
most concerned is the section where, basically, exploring the Board's structural modifications.
I think we as a Board, especially as an elected Board, should have that conversation of who is ultimately
our bosses? Who are ultimately the people who get us the job where we are at? And as an elected
Board, it is our community members, and it is our voters. I think we should have a discussion tonight
about how many recommendations in, say, a potential future Accountability Committee in two years or so
might have over us as a Board, especially when trying to find out if a problem exists as a Board structure.
That being said, that is going to be-- I know everyone has a lot of comments about that. That would just
be my one point, is if we can have a discussion regarding who is ultimately overseeing us as an elected
Board. As an elected public, in my opinion, the ultimate people who are overseeing us are the people who
voted for us. And that's all I have to say. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Bouquet. Director Broom, I believe that you would be next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm comfortable with the way the process is moving forward.
And I have no questions or comments at this time.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I guess I'll make two quick comments. One relates to pilot
programs, and one relates to service councils. I'll start with the easy one first, service councils. I just want
to make sure that-- I think that was one of the ones that we say, yeah, we're good with doing something. I
want to make sure that it's understood that those service councils are advisory only and that they do not
act as a replacement to our Service Planning Department. So I think it needs to be made clear. And I
think it's fairly clear in there. But I think there are other advisory entities around the state that somehow
think they have more power than they should that are upset when their advice isn't always taken.
Anyway, the second thing has to do with pilot programs. And we usually-- well, at least I look at them in
two categories. Either it's fare-based pilot program, non fare-based. Non fare-based, we have a perfect
example. And it was in 2019. RTD created a brand new bus route. It was the 61AV. And it was at the 61st
and Pena Station, and the surrounding neighborhood. And it was an autonomous vehicle bus route that
was put together by RTD, Panasonic, EasyMile, and some others, and ran for six months and gave us

some really great data on autonomous vehicles and how they can be used in transit. So great example of
a positive non-fare based pilot program.
Fare-based pilot program, I know a little bit about those, because also in 2019 I, Representative Kyle
Mullica, and several of you people that I see on the Board championed the N Line promotional fare pilot
program. It was very positively received. In fact, at a time when RTD was regularly lambasted in the
news, we made the front page of The Denver Post. "Agency May Try Fare Pilot Program." Positive article,
front page Denver Post.
It was great. Positively received. Some of the arguments, people were upset by a number of reasons.
Stakeholders and others. The big thing, I think, was that people said, well, at some point, six months,
that's got to end. Pilot programs related to fare, FTA says you got a 6 month window and then it's done.
And the concern was that people are going to be angry, upset, and all that. And then ridership will drop
and not increase. And people will be again upset with RTD.
Well, of course, the pandemic intervened with our pilot program. But it did end. And we had some
pushback from some of the local stakeholders. But let's look at the impact on ridership.
It ended in March of 2021. And in that month, the monthly boardings on the N Line were 45,895. April,
they were 50,675. May, 51,684. And June, 61,812. So we didn't experience that feared drop in ridership
because of the end of promotional fare pilot program. So I'm a big fan of those.
Long story short, if there's any way we can add some language, even equivocal language, that says that
we will consider some fare pilot programs to attract and increase ridership. And then actually talk about it,
and consider them, I would appreciate that.
That's all I have. Thank you Madame Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Buzek. Director Cook, do you have more that you want to add,
now?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. That prior was a question to figure out how to frame things here. So first of all,
on service councils this is a top priority for Arvada, a big part of District L. And I understand it's supported
by many of the Adams County folks, as well. So that's a big deal for me. And I'm hoping that to the extent
it's got a lot of added information about our laudable expanded listening sessions, that we can pare that
down. And then also include less of the argument that we currently have on the travel shed versus
geography, and do as GM CEO Johnson said and include that as one of the charges of the stakeholder
work group. So I just wanted to affirm that. I think that's really good.
I agree with Director Buzek in terms of the pilot programs. And by the way, Director Katlin didn't go. So
got to remember to go back to her. Yeah.

But anyway, in terms of the pilot programs, I like that broader look at what we might do. And I notice that
among the responses of Board Members, the Innovation Grant elicited a pretty strong response among
people who aren't among those who normally champion this idea. So, that was under the theme
partnerships. Leverage innovative outside the box mobility solutions partnerships. And the particular
wording talked about bold ideas, to drive bold ideas to increase ridership. And that captures, for me, a lot
of what the report urges in separate sections.
So if there is agreement around that broadened a bit, that partnership idea, to provide bold ideas to
increase ridership and to add service to the communities, et cetera. I would put an asterisk on that,
especially if it looks like it can garner a number of Board Members' vote.
And let's see, the bus stops. I didn't comment on that. I agree with it. And I'm glad that Director-- or CEO
GM Johnson is going to work on that, even if we can just be a convener on improving those bus stops. I
think it's important for us to start taking ownership on those. That's all I have, right now. Thank you very
much.
Oh, one last thing. I would add, and I think other directors in their comments will highlight this. But I agree
with the idea of talking about our impact, not just in terms of electrification on the environment, but what
we do in aiming toward reducing greenhouse gas emissions via ridership. So I agree with the comments
that some folks had on there. Thank you very much, Madame Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Catlin, I so apologize. I would very much like to
have you speak, now.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you Chair Williams. I first wanted to thank the Accountability Committee for all of
their hard work. I know that it took a lot of time from their otherwise busy schedules. And they really put a
lot of effort into their recommendations. I also wanted to commend the RTD staff for their very thoughtful
analysis of the recommendations, and their mindset of not being the agency of no. So well done.
I thought most of the recommendations were doable. I agree with-- although I think that RTD is already
doing many of the recommendations. I think we have made great strides in making changes. And we're
already accomplishing a lot of it. So some of these may not be as heavy a lift as one might think, if we
were starting from scratch.
The areas that I remain concerned about, and I articulated them in my comments, were that we need to
look at the broader FasTracks program. Not just the Northwest Rail. Not just the unfinished corridors. But
the remainder of the FasTracks plan, which included enhanced bus service. And I do think that we need
to make sure that we communicate to the stakeholders that that's important for our customers and our
riders. And the rest of my comments can be viewed in the Board document that we published.
So again, Thank you to both staff and the committee for all their hard work. And I don't see a problem
moving forward. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. And I would like to point out for the benefit of those who
have joined us this evening, that as Director Katlin states, the comments that were made by all of the
directors are attached to the packet for this committee meeting.
OK. Let me see if I can get my alphabetical sense back in order. It looks to me like Director Davidson
would be next.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll echo the sentiments of everybody here. Thank you to the
Accountability Committee. It was a lot of work, a lot of time, appreciate that. And likewise staff. I thought it
was very well thought out document. I appreciate sending that to us well in advance and giving us the
chance to comment. It's very helpful to have some time to digest it, particularly something that's deep. So
thank you for thinking it all through.
I think I'll keep it brief. I generally very much agree with some of the prior Directors, here. It seems to me
that a lot of the Accountability Committee recommendations, I don't mean to crudely summarize them, but
come from a place of experiencing a history with RTD as being the agency of no. And there are a number
of things that seem to hit at partnership. And it sounds like, from the staff response, we're very open to
that. So I think we just need to make sure that runs through the document.
One of the things that I had highlighted in my comments, was about the sharing of the federal money.
That seems to come up. And our response, quotes that we can't share the money, which as you pointed
out, General Manager and CEO, makes perfect sense. I just think it would be good for us to maybe
clarify, share in the sense of a disbursement. It's not like we can go disburse capital or cash to other
agencies. And we do mention in that response, that we are actually sharing in the sense that we're
executing projects with partner agencies and organizations. I think to the extent that we can give some
examples, or even refer to the Innovation Grant, that we're open to spending in the way that we're allowed
to within the auspices of a transit agency, in a collaborative way with our partners.
So I think anywhere that we have language that sounds a little bit like no-- and I hope this doesn't sound
like a purely political thing. It really is to make sure that we're answering, we too see a spirit of
collaboration here. There's just things that we're following. So for example, we can't disburse funds, but
what we can do is spend on partners for these types of things. So my general comment would be, let's
just make sure that that really does run through. And sharing of federal funds is one of those places that I
would highlight.
And then also, I too saw an opportunity with that Innovation Grant section, and noticed as Director Cook
pointed out that we all seem fairly in favor of that concept. There's probably an opportunity to hearken
back to even the equity analysis piece. I think the fare study, everyone wants to see things simplify and
be better and see us collaborate, but maybe don't necessarily know all of the things that go into following
Title VI and this, that, and the other. So there seems to be an opportunity to stay there, while we may
disagree with you on the approach for equity populations and how we adjust our fare structure, we really

do want to work on big, bold ideas. We just need to make sure that they fall within federal guidelines and
regulations.
So if, in that innovation grant section, we're able to put some tentacles to other answers and say, hey,
here's some examples of how we might collaborate. I think that might be good. When I read our
responses, I thought they were excellent. I just thought there were opportunities for us to, not just sound
more collaborative, but tie together what we're trying to do here is collaborate. In much the same way, I
read the Accountability Committee and said, wow what they're really looking for is to collaborate,
including on the Board governance structure.
And I appreciate the willingness to push that down the road a little bit. Because I'm not clear on the
problems that we have there. But it does seem to be that the perceived problems have to do with
collaboration and that maybe all these different advisory groups aren't getting their voices heard. So I
appreciate that gets moved out, but again, an opportunity for us to sound as though we want to
collaborate.
Along those lines, I do wonder if on the travel shed and county line area also, there may be an
opportunity. While I really appreciate how deep we went on a lot of this, we may want to simplify a little bit
of that, and just say look we're looking forward to getting these stakeholder groups together. Let's get
together. Let's meet. There's things that we pose that are relatively detailed.
For example, on the counties whether it be with Adams County and parts of Weld County that are within
Erie. And I think that many of the stakeholders have input, and have thought through some of that. And I
would want them to make sure they feel like they can be heard in those sessions. I think that's coming
across. Maybe we just need to say, look let's tackle a lot of this in those meetings. Make sure people
know that they will be heard.
And then finally, the other comment I'll make is because I know there's been discussion around Northwest
Rail. I'm very supportive of the fact that we have mentioned Northwest Rail with the Front Range
Passenger Rail. I think we're not trying to say Northwest Rail is the only thing we want to do with
FasTracks. It was specifically called out in the Accountability Committee report. And I think we can point
to our MLU.
And also we have pretty reasonable logic that, I mean believe me I live in the district, and represent folks
who have the N Line and the V line unfinished. So I hear about both of them. But my answer to all of them
is we've got a much bigger obligation on that Northwest Rail, in terms of our financial responsibility at
RTD. So looking for our opportunities to collaborate there makes the most sense from a fiscal standpoint.
So I appreciate that we're in line with the Accountability Committee. I just thought I'd call that one out
because I know that there's been some discussion in this group, and outside, as to whether we should be
taking a stance on that.

So I'll leave that there. And if I could just summarize, it's just let's sound very collaborative with this,
because I think that's absolutely our intent. And I think that's the intent of the Accountability Committee
coming in with a history of us being the agency of no. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Davidson. I'll note for the record, that Director Dishell is not with us
tonight. So Director Guissinger, you're up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. You know, I think that some of my introductory comments have
been reflected by other directors. And I appreciate that. I spent the year going to these meetings. I think
somebody said there's seven a month.
And I really appreciate what the Accountability Committee has done. They came in this with some big
tasks, such as fixing the long term financial situation, and figuring out the Northwest Rail issue. And I
think that they have come away with some good recommendations on a lot of things, and also an
appreciation of the complexities of a lot of the issues that are facing RTD.
And I agree. I like that Debra Johnson has mentioned the issue of agency of no. And that we are not the
agency of no. But the issue I think, as others have said, is that that was what this came from. And
partners at the local level, people at the local level, were not feeling heard. They were going to their
legislators. We were looking in SB 121, just as a bit of history, at mandates on things we couldn't afford,
and at some provisions to change the ability to sue RTD and things like that.
I believe that, to use Director Catlin's words, many of these recommendations are very doable. And I
appreciate the effort that staff has put into it. I would also reflect Director Davidson's comments that I think
throughout, as we go back through and do another edit and put it together, keeping in mind that we want
to move forward as partners in these projects, and in these problems, that we're facing, is really
important, that we are here to collaborate.
Somebody talking about debrucing. That's a great example of the kind of partner that we need others to
be with us, and we need to be with them. So I would encourage that view. I think mostly it's there. I will
mention some of the same things that had been mentioned.
A couple of things that I really think are sort of wording, more than anything. The sub regional councils,
the staff has said, yes we will put together a stakeholder group to look at role, purpose, and geography,
which were the things that were in the final report from the Accountability Committee, that they wanted us
to look at. But honestly I think when we, from there, spend so much time talking about our listening
sessions, and that we prefer the travel shed geography, it could be heard it could be heard by people
historically looking at RTD as saying RTD is not really going to listen.
And so I think I'll agree with a couple of people who've said let's trim that down. I think it's fine to say we
prefer the travel shed, that staff prefers the travel shed, or we prefer the travel shed geography. I think it's

fine to point out our listening sessions. But I would delete much of that conversation and take it to the
stakeholder group.
Likewise in the metrics, the environment, I think this is really an area that is of huge concern to all of us.
And I think all of us on the Board, all of us on staff, and it's important to say that there. That we share your
concerns here with the issues, and we are working hard to do our part. A big part of that is getting people
out of cars. And it's not just electrification, it's providing good transit service, which is what we're trying to
do. So I would emphasize that.
Going up to the COVID relief issues, I think it would be helpful to address the specifics of that area. But
the general point that's being made, I think, is that there's urgency here, a time limited opportunity to bring
people back. And I think that translates into this idea of having a pilot project, pilot fares project with lower
fares. I agree with Director Buzek that that is obviously a very popular thing. I think that the urgency is not
quite as intense as it was before, because of Delta.
In other words, I don't think it needs to start in September. But perhaps, as we move forward, and you
know I talked with Debra Johnson about this yesterday. And I think as we move forward with our fare in
analysis study, maybe by the end of this year, the beginning of next year, we'd be in a place to really try
something. And I think that's an important-- my sense of the Accountability Committee is that's an
important piece for them. And I would like to see us say, Yes we will try to do that. And we will be putting
that together in the near future
I also think the partnerships, there are two places that raise partnerships. One is under the COVID relief
funds issue. And one is at the much further down in terms of leveraging innovative out of the box mobility
solutions. I think that, I really see those as both things that we could do. And we can't share COVID relief
funds. We could share sales and use tax funds, if we see partners who are taking work that they can
either do less expensively or that takes some part of our job and relieves that from us. For instance
paratransit, where people would be using Access-a-Ride at a greater expense. So I would like us to
consider moving forward with that.
I guess I would agree with Director Davidson on the Northwest Rail piece. And I also agree that we
should move forward at looking at the unfinished corridors, And, as Peggy Catlin raises, the bus network.
But if we're looking at the N Line and the B line, I hope that we will start the process with our
communities, of talking it through. Because they both are obligations in the long run. And the B line is so
much more expensive, that it seems to me fiscally, it makes sense for RTD to support that with Front
Range Passenger rail.
I think that is about what I have. Thanks. I'll quit with that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis has not joined us. OK. I do not see her,
or hear her. Director Rosenthal, do you have more that you want to add, or are you good?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Just a few items I'd like to add, Madam Chair. Thank you.
So starting off with the issue of the Northwest Rail. I think this is something this Board has certainly
engaged a lot of commitments in the past, and also more recently as well, saying we're looking into this
project. And obviously the issue with the Peak Service, that we are considering a feasibility study on that.
So I think the folks who really dedicated a lot of effort on the Accountability Committee report, both within
the text of the report and the appendices, was a really lengthy and detailed and important discussion. So I
want folks who have written that section, and who are really asking us to seriously go that direction, to
know that we are doing some serious work and some serious considerations that are currently underway.
Much as my next point, which is speaking to which, we are doing quite a few things that the Accountability
Committee report already pointed out and said, you know, you should do this and this and this. And as
mentioned earlier, the fare study is currently underway. And I commend General Manager Johnson and
her staff, really, for pursuing that, and other Board members for pursuing that as well.
In terms of the Board structure, I'm also of the opinion that I think our Board is capable of policing itself, in
a sense of we can certainly-- if there are issues that we need to make changes to, we've talked about,
and I think we're still considering, whether we want to do community changes, consolidating them, name
changes, membership, how we vote, things like that. And we are in that process.
However, we are also, as was mentioned earlier, we are voted in by the people. And if the people want to
make a change to this structure, there's certainly, that is their prerogative. As I think the report mentioned,
they really couldn't find any particular issue with our structure. And our performance, especially I think
now, I think it's fair to say that this Board works very well together. I think we have agreements,
disagreements. And I think we can work together in that capacity to be professional about that. We work
well with our General Manager. I think we have pointed out a number of times that we think she's doing a
good job. And of course her team as well.
So I really don't see why we would need to revisit this in two years. I think that is-- I'm trying not to put
motive in from the perspective of the Accountability Committee, but it's almost like holding it over our
heads to say, well you guys better do well over the next two years, or we're going to revisit this issue with
your structure. And I think that's, honestly it's a little bit arrogant. I don't think it's necessary. And I think
that we don't need that two year revisit on the Board structure.
My main concern from a lot of my comments has been cost. It's all good, and I think we are doing some
good pilot projects, things like working with Uber and Metro Taxi and FlexRide. And a lot of us saw the
launch of the autonomous shuttles, and whether we can include that. And we're certainly, many of us are
pursuing how can we do greater electrification. So there's some really good stuff that I think is either
underway, or pushing for, or it's in the strategic plan for the future.
And so my concern is the cost. What are they proposing? How much is it going to cost? Because as Mr
MacLeod said earlier, at some point in the not too distant future, we culd start going into the red. And if
we have more and more projects, that is going to add to our operations cost. That will only push us more

into the red, potentially. And whether it could add to efficiency, it could add to more ridership. And it could
also add to cost. And that's just not certain at this point.
But also time from staff, as I mentioned earlier, our staff is really occupied. They're very busy people. And
I just want to make sure that if we're going to add more tasks to their plate, that we do so in a purposeful
way. So that is my concern in that regard.
And then finally, one of the final issues raised was the equity and fare enforcement. I know that Director
Williams and I and Mr Ford and others had a discussion about that yesterday, when we had a brief chat.
And there's some reasons why there's some changes in regards to numbers of fare enforcement on our
buses and trains, and how that's working and how equity intersects with that properly. So just want to ask
about that, if staff would also respond to that. So everyone else on the Board, but also in the community,
can hear a bit more about that issue.
Those are really all the issues that I have. And thank you very much for your time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Vice Chair Rosenthal. Director Sloan, according to my alphabet you're
next.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Chair Williams. And this is going so much more smoothly than I thought.
First, I agree with most of the substantive thoughts that have been expressed, and in particular the
appreciation for staff. But I would like to give a special shout out to whoever was assigned to actually
making notes on tonight's meeting, because it's not easy. We're jumping from one issue to another. And
whoever that is, thank you. And CEO GM Johnson should consider a special thank you to whoever that is
in the morning.
My first comment is an overall comment. And I'm not sure it's necessary. Because I don't know in what
form the responses are going to be delivered. But rather than jumping right into our responses, I would
like to do something from RTD's perspective. The way the executive summary reads, it's a very good
recommendation of the importance of RTD to the metro area as a whole, in terms of as we now say,
making lives better, and also reducing traffic congestion, greenhouse gases.
We know that's an important component of what transit does. Sustainability is RTDs DNA. And you know,
I think an overall introduction would really be helpful in terms of expressing our agreement with the
Accountability Committee about the importance of transit in our community. And that would be in addition
to the transmittal letter.
The other overall comment is, as many directors have said, certain sections can be abbreviated.
Particularly what I've seen is the subregional councils, the pass programs. There are lots of opportunities
to make it shorter, and therefore more likely to be reviewed.

So those are my overall comments.
Of the specific issues I'd like to bring up is the connection between what other Directors have brought up
as a time limited opportunity to change commuting patterns, as whenever we emerge from the pandemic
people establish how they're going to be, and when they're going to be, getting to work. And the
Innovation Grants, because there is-[PHONE RINGING]
I'm sorry. I'm trying to hang up. OK.
There is research that transition times are important. And if you can do something different to get people
out of their cars at that time, it will be lasting. And I think Director Buzek pointed this out as well. So those
are my major issues. The connection between sustainability. and Innovation Grants and emphasizing that
in some way, in the report.
And finally there's so much detail in this report and you can tell it's put together by a lot of people. And it
obviously was. But it shouldn't read like it was put together by a committee. So it does deserve an overall
edit and reset.
That's all I have to say. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. Director Tisdale, T comes after S.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh it does. Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate the work of everyone in preparing
these responses. Because I find them to be extremely well put together, and in fact cogent, which
includes a sense of brevity. But I'll speak about that at the very end.
And in response to recommendation number 12, that's page 139 of our packet concerning Board
governance. That one, I want to point out, I think is particularly well stated in confirming and repeating the
fact that the Accountability Committee really didn't find any problems regarding Board governance. But
they had been told to look at Board governance, and so they did. But I think that their report, and our
response, confirms that perhaps there was no there, there. So we don't need to worry about that.
In the response to recommendation number 13, which is found at page 140 of the packet, it is regrettable
that the Accountability Committee, after noting that there were four unfinished FasTracks corridors, chose
to address only one. The Southwest Line extension, which happens to be in my district, is feeling left out.
And I appreciate that some of the other directors have made that observation as well. The report is
singularly focused on Northwest Rail, to the exclusion of the other lines. And it's unfortunate. But in any
event, they only chose to address the one. And the response to that, I think, is very well written. And I
applaud them.

And it's interesting to review Appendix Five to the accountability report. That begins at page 103 of the
material. It makes for very interesting reading. It is cogent. It is concise. And it is dramatic. Again, it only
focuses on the Northwest Rail. But it does say that none of the three solutions that are proposed for the
Northwest Rail would sustain the economic viability of RTD. And they acknowledge that economic viability
of RTD is the critical element for the Accountability Committee to address.
It's interesting to read Appendix Five in conjunction with Appendix Six, which begins at page 106. That
Appendix Six is a compelling indictment of Northwest Rail. And it constitutes an enconium, a paean, a
panegyric, relative to bus rapid transit. And I think that's something that we should keep in mind.
Finally, regarding the comments that the responses are too long, I would remind us of the words of the
poet brevis laboro esse, obscurus fio. I strive to be brief. I become obscure. So I think longer responses
addressing each of these points are in fact very helpful.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. It is always a pleasure to hear you speak. Director
Whitmore. Tough act to follow. Your up.
TROY WHITMORE: Indeed. When I was going to talk about the benefits of brevity, much like Director
Sloan, at least in one area. One of the comments I had, was on the Service Council, the listening session,
the whole structure of how we come up with those, I think it gets a bit lengthy. But on the other hand, I
certainly can live with that, with Senator Tisdale's smart words there, as well.
One of the other things that a few folks have mentioned-- and I'll try not to be too redundant. But I think
that the whole pilot program mechanism that we've been talking about, and I think we talked, several of
us, with Debra or one of us-- at least one other Director-- was the pilot program championed by the
Director Buzek earlier in the evening, and that we have a sense of a plan already to look at that as we go
from fall to winter, based upon the other things that are in motion that are necessitated by our Title VI and
our federal guidelines.
So I think so many of these recommendations are in play, with the strategic plan that we've approved.
And we spent hours and hours working with staff, not as many hours as staff did. So I think we are at a
point where we need to thank, as Director Sloan says, Mr McKay for his fine work that he's in the middle
of, right now, as we speak, assisting us. We'll have a chance to probably take another look in the next 24
to 48 hours. Thank you very much John. And that will be helpful.
I do want to just make note of the incredible heavy lift from our staff during the last year and a half on
many items, but notably the Accountability Committee. There indeed was many months with seven
meetings a month. And Lynn and I attended as many of those as we could. And many of you did as well.
But I know Debra and many key staff members were very involved and provided so much education and
clarification. And I think that process grew in its importance and its appreciation from the committee

greatly over 90 or 120 days into this session to the completion. I just can't help and feel very proud of the
staff that we have, and how hard they worked on this project.
You know, Director Tisdale, I want to add one C, to your three C's motto that we've heard for a number of
years, which I've readily embraced during my campaign, and since. But let's go back to Director Cook's
comment. I think there's a word there that I tend to think that it summarizes our new attitude and our
leadership with Debra. And that word is convener.
If we can't do it ourselves, can we find somebody that can help us? And can we brainstorm to do those
kind of projects in a convener type of mode? And I think that's a mode that we are rising to, and have a lot
of potential to fill, whether it's a big project or one little bus stop in Adams County and everything in
between. So thank you for that word, Director Cook. And I look forward to Director Tisdale adding it to his
repertoire.
I think I've said plenty. Thank you all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madame Chair. I want to thank Director Whitmore for doing such
an elegant job of thanking the staff. And as I sit here, seven months of meetings comes out to about 84
meetings. So if you did an average of seven meetings a month [AUDIO OUT] literally every department at
the Regional Transportation District was either on-call, presenting, or researching material, and headed
by Mr McKay and Ms McManus and Tai-Shrae to make sure that everything was being done in a timely
manner. And I know they were meeting on a regular basis with our General Counsel and the senior
leadership team.
So I cannot begin to say how proud I am of what a stellar staff we have under the direction of General
Manager Johnson. And I attended as many of the meetings as I could. But I'll tell you, I saw a transition in
respect when Miss Johnson became involved. Because she became such a catalyst for information
dissemination and open and transparency.
So I want to say that, first of all, because I think it's very, very important to understand just how many staff
hours this took, and our commitment to the community, to the legislature, to the governor's office, that our
team was at the table. And I want to specifically also thank first Vice Chair Guissinger and Director
Whitmore for being the voice of the Board. They did an amazing job.
I do think that, in reading all of the recommended actions from the Accountability, the staff's responses,
and the Board's responses, I can't help but say, Thank you to the Board of Directors. Of 11 of you
responded in depth, reading everything, and giving this your opinion. I think that this has been the most
strategic transparent and inclusive process. And that's been the whole mantra under the General
Manager's leadership, and with the adoption of our new strategic plan.

If you look at my remarks, I started going through it and then I though, you know what? Wait a minute. We
are doing so many of these components. And in addition, once we pass through the strategic plan, we
really have been doing a lot of the work. And I know a lot of you have shared that with us, or share that
opinion.
In terms of the environmental impact, I absolutely agree that that is an important component. And I stand
by the fact that transit is probably still the best mode of taking cars off the street. I don't care if there's
electric vehicles, bicycles carpools, vanpools. They don't compare to the number of cars one transit
component can do, a bus or train. And I think we need to tout that. That we are really eliminating our
carbon footprint. And we need to just educate our community in that, particularly in light of the climate
issues that we are dealing with, not just in this community but across the world.
I also had been talking to some folks about the pilot programs. And I talked to Director Buzek. I've talked
to First Vice Chair Guissinger. What I said was, I really want to wait until our transit equity analysis is
done. Because I think one of the things I want to make sure, is as we move forward, when we develop a
plan of action, that it is done in the spirit of inclusion of the entire district and not just one neighborhood.
That, I think, would be much more substantive in terms of showing inclusion, and making sure that we are
doing our due diligence. It doesn't mean that I don't think that pilots are great, because I do. But I do think
that we need to be much more strategic about how we move forward in terms of working the specific
areas.
And then I want to talk a little bit about our collaborative methodologies. And you're right Director
Rosenthal. We do so many things already. We didn't even touch on Reimagine. And so I think that we are
currently-- we have just thrown the net out to have everyone come to the table to work with us. Because
transportation belongs to everybody. But the policy is on our shoulders. And so we need to do our due
diligence.
And then lastly, I would just like to go in with several of the Board members regarding the Board structure.
And I believe as well, that we are an elected Board. And if the voice of the people decide that we should
not be here, then I think that that is their responsibility. I disagree completely with the 2 here. Take a look
at this. I find it not only arrogant, but grossly disrespectful of the voice of the community. And I will say
that publicly, because they're the ones who put us in office. And they're the ones who should take us out
of office.
And that concludes my remarks, Madame Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Director Sloan, I see your hand. I have not had a chance to speak
yet, but if you have something that you need to say now, I'm willing to give you the microphone. Go
ahead.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Oh, this will be really quick.

Director Tisdale and I go back a long ways. And I believe it's important to counter his quote with one of
my own. It's been attributed to both the physicist Pascal and Mark Twain. And it says, "I have only made
this letter longer because I have not had the time to make it shorter." That's all. Thank you for that
opportunity.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome, Director Sloan.
OK. I want to point out that there are directors who did not respond. That does not mean that they did not
read, or dwell deeply upon the issues. It's possible that perhaps they did not feel that they had anything
additional to add. I would like to thank all of the people that everybody has thanked. My list includes
Director Guissinger and Director Whitmore, the Board Office, Director Johnson. But most of all, I would
like to thank Matthew Helfant and DRCOG and all of the staff over there who also worked very hard to
make this happen.
I'd like to thank all of the members of the Accountability Committee, who really took the time to look at our
agency and to give it thought and to suggest things that we might do to make the Public Transit Agency
here in the greater Denver area better. I'd like to note that they have one missed opportunity, which is at
no point did I read them to say that in fact RTD is a pretty good agency.
I personally have traveled all over the world, on a lot of public transit agencies. And we are in fact safe,
clean, reasonably priced, and mostly on time. And I would like to have seen the Accountability Committee
include that, since I can tell that over all of the hours that they've put into it, that they did, in fact, find that
to be true.
So those conclude my comments. What I would like to do now as part of this meeting is go back, as I
promised Director Guissinger. We will go back to General Manager Johnson, and any of her staff that she
wants to call. And then we will go around the room again. So if you all pay attention for just a minute, Miss
Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I want to extend my thanks to all of
you Board members. This was quite helpful. While John is here, I'm taking copious notes as well. So if I
may, Madam Chair, if you can indulge me, I want to address the issues that have come up collectively. I
think to the point that's been raised, there is consensus around some of these, and I'm glad to hear it.
Because on the face of it, recognizing some of the elements that have been pointed out, went back and
looked at some of these things and thought Yes. Agree. Right?
So Director Bouquet, he spoke to the governance, recognizing who was overseeing us. That's the
common thing we heard as relates to governance. So for all intents and purposes, I do believe that there
is, from the comments that we have heard thus far, there is consensus around that this body is elected by
the people. And that's the voice of the voter, and recognizing that as a stand alone. I don't believe that
there's further edits as relates to that, outside of saying that the two year oversight, which would not come
from the Accountability but from the State Auditor, just for clarification sake.

Director Broom had no questions.
Director Buzek spoke to the service councils. And he made note that they are advisory only. They don't
act as replacement for service planning staff. And then more so as it spoke to pilot fare programs,
recognizing his examples that he put forward as it relates to the 61A, the fare free when we leveraged the
AB back in 2019, and the N Line promotional fair, which actually commenced in September of 2020 with
the onslaught of the N Line, and then terminated in March.
There were questions as relates to the promotional fare. And the one element from a question vantage
point was considering a fare pilot programs, and discussed with the Board as related to modifying that
language. And I believe I heard that from some individuals collectively, and also with Chair RiveraMalpiede recognizing where we end up with a fare equity study. That could be something holistically. So
what I will share is that language can be added, if that's the desire, collectively, to say that we can
consider this going forward.
Director Cook. She in turn shared as well, the service council's regarding the stakeholder working groups
in reference to us showcasing, we're doing this. We're doing this. Have that more collaborative spirit, in
the sense of being more or less brief, relative to what that is, and recognizing that collectively, we will
have that work group that will provide their opinions relative to what might be optimal, relative to whatever
concept comes to fruition.
And then also, Director Cook spoke to the fact about partnerships, bold ideas, as we talk about providing
incentives for ridership and talking about the environmental impact. And I think that resonated collectively
throughout, as we talk about our community values strategic priority. And not only are we providing value
to the Denver region, but also sustaining planet Earth. And that can be reiterated throughout.
Director Catlin made reference to the broader aspect of the FasTracks plan, including the enhanced bus
service. I think I heard that clearly from several different Board members as well. That's something that
can clearly be incorporated in, recognizing that it's been mentioned by several relatives. The Northwest
Rail is not the only project considered or involved-- included is the word I'm looking for-- in the greater
program.
Director Davidson, appreciate your comments as you stated, more or less, that we should have our
responses run through from the elements, and I use this word, of the spirit of collaboration and
partnership. Really the example you provided, being open and sharing regarding innovation grants. And
you noted the term collaborative on several occasions. The travel shed. I made reference to a Northwest
Rail, as you said. You recognize the bigger obligations as relates to the fiscal responsibility we may have
relative to the unfinished corridors. And then basically, the underlying message I took from your
comments is to make sure that one can hear throughout that we do have a desire to be collaborative.

Director Guissinger as relates to your comments, what I summarized here is that we need to move
together as partners. The word collaborative, I think, is the word du jour. Stakeholder groups, as we
talked about before with the service councils, saying that we could abbreviate that response as well.
Abbreviate the response, in the sense that we don't have to go on about what we've been doing thus far,
but recognizing the elements that Director Cook has shared as well.
You also made mention about the importance of transit to the region, where we get people out of single
occupant vehicles. Bringing people back, trying something new. And we talked about partnerships from
the element of the federal relief funding, in the sense that we may not be able to share that. But there are
sales and use tax funds. And what else can we do collectively as we look at the partnership aspects. And
then as relates to the thinking outside of the box, innovative type solutions, and you, too, made reference
to the unfinished corridors as relates to FasTracks.
Director Rosenthal, you made mention of Northwest Rail peak service study. You specifically called out
the PEL being the planning environmental linkages study that you all will take under advisement and
consideration, at the next scheduled Board meeting. You also emphasized the fare study and equity
analysis, the things that we are doing. Board governance, you share the same sentiment relative that
we're elected by the people.
And your overarching themes throughout are the main cost, recognizing what Chief Financial Officer
MacLeod just presented, as we look at our financial outlook in a couple of years going forward. You in
turn talked about equity. And I would qualify it as proof of payment, as opposed to fare enforcement, as
relates to what we're doing collectively about equity.
One thing I will share, just collectively recognizing that we did leverage a peer review with the American
Public Transportation Association, looking at our security models. We have been working collectively on a
myriad of different things that have spawned out of that. I will, as I said before, be bringing updates to you
all collectively. But we are looking at a myriad of different models in reference to ensuring that we don't
have, per se, armed guards, but leveraging-- and we use this term a lot here-- ambassadors, but really
having somebody that serves as a customer service interface, where you can take the approach in a
gingerly fashion. Educating and informing people about how they go about getting a fare and things along
those lines. So that's the snippet in reference to the quick question that Director Rosenthal has put
forward.
Additionally, Director Sloan. As it relates to the voice of the document. I do want to share with everyone
for your edification, that we took those responses as they were to share them with you, so we could get
those out to you for you to opine. We are going through those. And they will have one voice. We're
focusing on tonality. Not to change the course of the responses to deviate, but to showcase that, in turn,
we will have a summary i.e. an executive summary, to encapsulate what that is. And more so, there will
be a transmittal letter as well.

I don't want to get too far ahead of myself, as I go through all the comments that I've heard. But we will, to
the point that Director Whitmore stated, be working on this diligently to get back out a document that you
can see in its final form, more or less, incorporating these different elements. So I just wanted to ensure
that you understood that.
Also Director Sloan made mention about certain sections can be abbreviated. You specifically gave the
example of the Subregional Councils, which I've already spoke about. And then the pass program, and I
would say I totally concur with that. And the working team did look at that some time ago, when we first
got you responses, and agreed, that there was no need to go down that rabbit hole in saying, this is what
it does. Because that really wasn't germane to the response. More specifically you talked about the
connection between sustainability. And then as I said before, you said the overall edit and reset. And
that's in process, so it comes from one voice-- it's told with one voice.
Director Tisdale, as you talked about Board governance, you basically said that as you read that reco
number 12, that there was no there, there, as relates to a problem trying to be solved with the governance
structure. You also mentioned the Southwest Rail extension that speaks to the unfinished FasTracks
corridors. Hear you loud and clearly, because I think the vast majority of you have commented on that.
Northwest Rail is not the only project that we have within the FasTracks program.
Director Whitmore, you too made mention of the Service Council, citing about the listening session. I can
see the point, as I said in the previous responses to the other ones. And then you talked about ultimately,
in reference to where we are now, is being a convener.
Director Rivera-Malpiede, you shared that pilots need to be more strategic, while you embrace them. We
don't need to do things in one geographic area, or a neighborhood, because that does give the
appearance of discriminatory treatment or a disparate impact or disproportionate burden to certain
customer segments. But more so, as we talk about the aspect of examples of being collaboratively, we
have showcased that with the Reimagine RTD process. And then you also spoke to the governance
aspects, as it related to elected boards, being that the people have the voices. And that that was grossly
disrespectful, whole heartedly, as we talked about you all being directly elected by a constituency.
And then, Director Williams, what I summed up from you is that RTD is a pretty good darn transit agency,
as you travel around the globe. And I would commend that. I would echo that as well.
So if I may offer up, at this juncture, Madam Chair, in reference to these comments that I have, what I will
endeavor to do with my staff, because recognizing that I do try to be strategic and plan in advance. We do
have time carved out tomorrow, recognizing that we have something before you as relates to an action
item, per se, that you may consider for your consideration like a continuance. Because we could provide
to you, the revised responses, so you all have the opportunity to look at that, and then take action at the
meeting next Tuesday, which would be the Board meeting.

So that is my comments. I'm happy to address anything more specifically. But I did not believe that I
received a direct question outside of one from Director Rosenthal. And what I captured in my nice little
journal that says, Embrace the Day. So with that, I will yield the floor to you, Madam Chair. Thank you
very kindly for the opportunity to comment on all of the feedback that I've heard from you all assembled
here this evening.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson. I appreciate your ability to take in all
of this conversation. I did promise Director Guissinger that she would be able to speak again. So I am
going to give her the opportunity to do that now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Williams. I guess I just have one question. It is-- well a question
and a suggestion. Debra Johnson, Ms Johnson. Part of the reason that Director Williams has given me
the opportunity, was we had a difference of opinion on how this should go. Which is, it's her committee.
We moved it forward. But I'm not sure if we've reached enough consensus. We really didn't discuss each
issue to say-- you have comments from each of the Board members, I'm unclear as to how we move that
forward. Would it help to look at them again? To take any votes? How do we move this forward?
KATE WILLIAMS: As the Chair of the committee, I'm happy to speak to that. My understanding is that
staff, the RTD staff who are the people who really do run the agency, are going to take all of this
information, address the proposal that was put forth for all of us to comment on, make any modifications,
correction, additions, deletions, summations that they feel should be done, and then submit it to us again.
I don't know how many times we need to do that. But that was my understanding of how this process
would work.
In order for this to come to us again next week, it needs to move out of this committee. And so my next
move, since we do have a mover and the second, would be to recommend that we take a vote, to move
this out of committee, contingent on there being revisions, additions, et cetera. I'm sure Director Tisdale
can give me a lot of Latin words for that. And an additional review.
General Manager Johnson, does that agree with your consensus about where we're going from here?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, ma'am. Thank you very kindly. That's what we're going to do. Work diligently
and incorporate what we heard. As I said, John was taking notes. I did my handwritten notes to give you a
high level summary, recognizing everything that you guys put forward with the spirit of collaboration,
congeniality, focusing on how to save planet Earth, reducing the carbon footprint. And more specifically
as relates to the consensus, I believe I heard, including language that say that we will consider pilot
projects without tying ourselves holistically to a timeline relative to what we talked about, that we'd heard
from the Chair, regarding the fare study and equity analysis. And I believe, Director Guissinger and
Director Whitmore, we spoke about that loosely yesterday as well.
So that's what I was endeavoring to do with my team, to ensure that you all had ample opportunity to look
at that again. If, in fact, we come to the 24th and there is some confusion or what have you about the

responses, and there needs to be another modification, I believe that that would be appropriate at the
time, next Tuesday, to make an Amendment to incorporate it. So we can have this done in such a way
where we have a product that we can all be proud of and rally around.
So thank you very much. I hope that addresses your question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, thanks. That's OK. I wanted to just join others in thanking the staff. I know that
our Board staff, and Jyotsna and others have worked very hard. There were huge amounts of documents
that were produced. And I appreciate all of that work. And I also would echo the Chair in saying that it
really made a difference when Debra started attending all of the meetings. I think that was very much
appreciated, and just a huge difference in terms of the knowledge and the focus and all of those things.
And my thanks as well to the Accountability Committee members and DRCOG.
I have one more suggestion. I found out just in the last day or two, that we had a real expert editor among
us. Marjorie spent many years editing federal judges' work and persuasive documents and things like
that. I mentioned this to the Chair today. I haven't had a chance to mention it to Debra. But I do think it's
so important that we speak as one voice, that I would suggest that she work with your staff on that final
edit to make it shine. And she's volunteered to do that. But I wanted to raise that with the Board.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I'm going to ask, at this time, that if there are other
directors who wish to speak, that they raise their hands, rather than me go all the way through the entire
alphabet again. And I'm going to give everybody a minute to digest that. Director Bouquet. The floor is
yours.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Appreciate it. Thank you, Madam Chair. And it's kind of going off Director
Guissinger's questions. So this is a recommended action. Basically, based on the language, it says for
the Board of Directors to adopt responses to the recommendations outlined in the RTD Accountability
Committee final report. What we vote on tonight, potentially, is just voting for this to appear at the Board
meeting on the 24th? But not necessarily us, as a Board, agreeing with everything that was said. But we'll
get that as a finalized version. I just want-OK, I need to make sure my vote is protected and knowledgeable.
The last point I would want to point out, including-- multiple directors made this point, including our own
Chair of this governing Board. It's Section 4. I have a big issue with section 4. And that's regarding, I just
feel like this is a slippery slope. I'll go back to it again. It feels like we are getting judged from past
mistakes of past-- not necessarily mistakes, but past boards. Past leadership. I feel like this is a brand
new Board. I feel like this is a new CEO, a new GM.

Section 4 is basically exploring the Board structure. I feel we have to be careful. It's a slippery slope,
allowing another entity that is overseeing an elected body who hasn't been elected by the voters. I think
we have to be very careful of that. And so I just want to voice that very loud and clearly. I have a lot of
disagreement when it comes to section 4. And I just would like that to be kind of made as a note,
potentially, that there has already been brought up by several directors, regarding governance. That
would just be my last comment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Bouquet. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And maybe this question is for General Counsel Melanie Snyder. Do we
need to provide an Amendment for the contingency vote? An Amendment to the actual motion to provide
for that contingency for revisions by staff?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madame Chair. If I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, absolutely.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. Thank you Director Catlin for that question. I think we have enough discussion
on the record about what is funded by the Board's direction, in voting to move this item forward, and the
language of the actual recommended actions could be in general. So I think we're all moving forward with
an understanding that if the Board votes to move this item forward, the understanding is that staff is going
to incorporate all of the recommendations and have the Board take another look at it. And we will all have
an opportunity to take another look at it next week. Discuss it further. And potentially, if need be, formal
motions can be made at that time to make further adjustments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I just wanted to make sure we were OK procedurally.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Catlin. I'd like to point out, and then I will get to the rest of the
directors whose hands are up. I'd like to point out that the verbage in the motion does say responses. It
doesn't say this exact response with all of the words that are in it. It says that this committee, this group,
this body, this Board of Directors is willing to move our responses forward, and then attempt to reply to all
of the work that the Advisory council did by September 3.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Making sure I'm on mute. Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to say that
with Director Guissinger's suggestion about having Director Sloan edit this document. I disagree with that.
This is a document that is being put together by our staff in response directly to this agency. And I'd like
them to complete their work. And then as it moves forward, then we could look at it. But I don't think that
we need to be editing the staff's responses. I just think that, let's look at that piece when it comes to us
and then do what it is we need to do. Because we're in such a short timeline, that we need to get all of
these components done. And so I would just say that, that would be my recommendation. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Rosenthal Paul. I believe you would be next
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And sort of relating to one of the comments from General
Manager Johnson in the very beginning when she was making her comments and presentation. There
was mention of a $14 million as a cost associated with potentially, a cost associated with some of these
recommendations. And I wanted to hear a little bit more about that. Maybe a little bit more detail or
perhaps I misinterpreted her comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: General Manager Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Director Rosenthal. What I was
referencing is when we talked about the allocation of funds that we receive through CRRSAA back in
early January, there were questions asked of us. What we were going to do with those monies? And that
was some time when we talked about holistically recognizing we had just come out of the hearing as
related to the state audit. And there were a myriad of things that we needed to do to level set where we
are with our internal audit function, for example.
More specifically, there were discussions that ensued as related to the APTA peer review. When I put
forward that I wanted to have a panel of our peers look at our practices as related to the internal function.
More so, as we talked about the security model. When I first came into this organization, there was an ad
hoc committee that had been convened. And I remember specifically talking to the Chair of the Board, as
well as the chairs of that ad hoc committee, saying I think would be most prudent if we have a peer
review.
I provide that as back drop to say, in leveraging those things going forward, that we did a money swap to
utilize those monies to help us bring to fruition the activities to address such recommendations that we
received. Thus far, without getting into too much detail, that we're leveraging that for our third party
consultant that we're bringing in to help us level set the internal audit function. That $14 million is going to
go towards that. We talked about operator retention and things of alike.
You may have seen just recently our efforts as it relates to recruitment. And you saw a video. We're
utilizing those monies for that, because that's spawned out of what we can do. So those are high level
examples, as we talk about what we can bring to fruition. There could be costs attributed to the Service
Councils of which we have no idea at this juncture. When you look at the Board report, and it talks about
fiscal impact, we said adopting this does not have any direct fiscal impact. But there could be others.
So what we did was carve out $14 million, roughly, so we would have some monies. And when we look at
the sales and use, we could swap that out to ensure that we would be in a place financially, to support
these undertakings for the betterment of the organization as we look at the efficiency and efficacy of such.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome, sir.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, both. I see Director Chair Rivera-Malpiede has her hand up still. No? And
down. OK. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. If you go through and look at the record for this entire matter,
there is no smoking gun in here. And so I would submit that I wouldn't be amenable to lighting a two year
fuse on this thing. That's like shooting yourself in the foot. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. You get a yes vote for me. You can put your hand down
now, sir. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Debra Johnson's remarks about the $14 million sparked that thought. I can
be corrected, but I don't think that the Accountability Committee's recommendations included the internal
audit, however important and necessary and vital that is. I'm glad that-- I can't tell you how grateful I am
for the work that you all have been doing to straighten and work on that.
But I do think that in the spirit of our value of doing what we say, when we say we'll do it, that we should
be clear about that $14 million and enumerate what we are intending to spend it on, and how much is left,
and what we can do beyond the operator retention if anything. I just think that we had pledged that we
would use that. I want to make sure that we're transparent about how, in fact, we are. So thank you so
much, though for bringing that up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Cook. I do not see any more hands. Are there any of the Directors
who want to contribute to this discussion? Anything further? OK.
General Manager Johnson, you good? Do you have anything you feel like you want to add to this, at this
time?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No. I just want to say to Director Cook's comment, we are going to work on that $14
million. At this time, we don't know what that is. But I wanted to clarify, when I talked about the internal
audit, I was saying that there was the Accountability Committee, the state audit recommendations, and
the peer review. They were separate, i.e. semicolons in between. So that's $14 million, inclusive of all
those different recommendations we received. So that's all I had Madam Chair. Thank you for the
opportunity to clarify.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. OK. Everybody is good for now. There's no more discussion items. We are
now going to return to the vote. I have the Chair Rivera-Malpiede as the mover, and Director Rosenthal
as the second. And I'm going to ask if the directors are willing to move this item forward. And I'll go
around the room and allow everybody to express themselves.
Director Bouquet, your vote, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: After being educated, I am a yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek. I'll come back to him. He may have left the room momentarily. Director
Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek, are you back? He's not back yet. That's OK. I am yes. So we have, my
count is 12 yeses. One not voting-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Buzek. Are you a yes?
VINCE BUZEK: I just stepped away for one second. I'm a yes vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: I know it happens. Thank you. So we have 13 yeses, and two directors who are absent
from the meeting, and unable to vote. And we will move this recommended action forward, out of this
committee.
There are no other discussion items. Are there other matters to come before this committee, this
evening? Chair River-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to share with the Board,
we all did receive the sad notification of the passing of former Director Gary Lassiter. And I had the
privilege of working with Director Lassiter. And I just wanted to extend our sincere condolences to his
family, and to his community who he served so amazingly well. So, thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that reminder. Chair Rivera-Malpiede. If there are no other matters, the
next meeting of this committee will be September 14. And I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
OVERLAPPING VOICES: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. And I'll take that as a movement and a second, the whole nine yards. Thank you
all so much. And good evening.
[FAREWELLS]

