1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, June 3, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 5:57 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present
Bruce Daly
Committee Vice-Chair
Present
Barbara Deadwyler
Director, District B
Present
Claudia Folska
Committee Chair
Present
Larry Hoy
Director, District J
Present
Bill James
Director, District A
Present
Gary Lasater
Director, District G
Present
Judy Lubow
Director, District I
Present
Natalie Menten
Director, District M
Present
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Director, District C
Present
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

Arrived
5:55 PM
5:56 PM
5:55 PM
6:00 PM
5:54 PM
5:58 PM
5:55 PM
6:01 PM
5:55 PM
5:55 PM
5:56 PM
5:56 PM
5:54 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:55 PM
5:55 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Svetlana Grechka, Genevieve Hutchison, Austin
Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Patrick McLaughlin, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Bill Sirois, Kirk Strand, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Doug Gragg, Sherman Hamilton,
Matthew Helfont, John Kingley, Roger Sherman, Joe Triplett, Gary
Van Dorn, Monte Whaley, Bob Wilson

B. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, indicated that June is a month of
meetings, conferences and travel. He noted that the Metro Mayors Caucus
will have a full Caucus meeting on June 4, 2014. He shared that he will be
attending the Downtown Denver Partnership’s Urban Exploration Trip, which
Director James will be attending as well. He pointed out that this trip, as
well as Accelerate Colorado, presents great opportunities for informal
discussions with Colorado’s elected officials. Roger Sherman informed the
Board that he would report back if there were any specific comments by
elected officials in their District.
Roger Sherman stated that he will be attending the Colorado Municipal
League Annual Conference from June 17-20, 2014. He believes this will be
a good opportunity to interact with RTD’s mayors and council members
throughout the District.
Roger Sherman noted that the quarterly meeting for the FasTracks Citizens
Advisory Committee will be in Boulder on June 18, 2014. He invited the
Directors to attend. Roger Sherman said that there would be a presentation
on the Northwest Area Mobility Study consensus as well as a discussion
about RTD’s upcoming DRCOG reports.
Roger Sherman shared that the Metro Area Commissioners Meeting will be
the last Friday of the month. He commented that at this time the agenda
has not been released but he plans to be there if there are any transit related
issues.
Director Daly congratulated Roger Sherman on the great telephone town
halls that he was conducting with each Director.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry~McKenna, stated that the legislature is
out of session so Brandeberry~McKenna is gearing up for the interim
committee meetings. She said they follow the Legislative Audit Committee
(LAC) and the Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) on
behalf of RTD.
Jenifer Brandeberry shared that the LAC recently met and approved two
items for research time that pertain to transportation funding: (1) HTPE and
US36 and (2) CDOT and FASTER Funds. She reiterated that this is just for
research time; the Committee may vote to proceed with a full audit at the
July Committee Meeting. Jenifer Brandeberry stated that TLRC has released
its committee meeting dates but no agendas yet. She said that she has
been working with a committee staffer to coordinate the report/presentation
that RTD does each year.
Jenifer Brandeberry noted that Friday, June 6, 2014, is the last day the
Governor has to sign or veto a bill. She commented that it remains to be
seen if Senate Bill 14-197 regarding to P3s in Colorado will be signed,
vetoed or become law without signature.
Jenifer Brandeberry said that there have been some interesting
conversations between the oil and gas industry, municipal governments, the
agricultural industry, and homebuilders in regards to calling a special session
to deal with some of the pending ballot measures. She shared that this is
something the Governor would really like to happen but she sees it being
difficult due to timing.
Jenifer Brandeberry informed the Board that during the legislative session her
firm and Chris Quinn, Planning Project Manager, offered briefings on the
Northwest Area Mobility Study to the legislators on the corridor. She said
there were four briefings conducted; her office is continuing to work to
schedule additional meetings.
Committee Chair Folska thanked Jenifer Brandeberry for her report and for
Brandeberry~McKenna’s pro-active approach to educating our legislators.
Director Bagley wondered if the special session would include something
related to construction defect legislation. Jenifer Brandeberry stated that it
would be called directly to address oil and gas and setback issues.
Director Bagley asked if Jenifer Brandeberry expected something to happen
in the next session in reference to construction defect legislation as it relates

to Transit Oriented Development, Transit Oriented Communities or in any
other matter. Jenifer Brandeberry explained that the sponsors of the last bill
have indicated that they plan to continue to work on the issue along with a
large group of organizations that have signed onto the coalition.
Director Menten wondered if it was possible to find out what the focus is of
the two items approved for research time by the LAC. She also wondered
what the timeframe might be to determining if there would be a full audit.
Jenifer Brandeberry explained that typically the initial research time has a
very broad net. She believes the focus for HTPE research is to actually
review the contact while the focus of the FASTER research is to see how
the dollars have been allocated. Jenifer Brandeberry said that she
anticipates a vote on a full audit for both items during the July committee
meeting.
Director Lubow asked if RTD took a position on the P3 legislation. Jenifer
Brandeberry stated that was something that her team monitored on behalf of
RTD.
Committee Chair Folska asked if Jenifer Brandeberry thought the red light
camera bill might come back in the next session. She noted that Bruce
Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, provided her with some
evidence of how well these cameras assist us in reducing our accident rates.
She thought it might be valuable to share with the sponsors. Jenifer
Brandeberry stated that this has been a perennial issue for some years; she
anticipates someone bringing it back.

• Federal Update - Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Patton Boggs, shared with the Board that his firm had gone
through a merger effective January 1, 2014; they are now known as Squire
Patton Boggs.
Mike Dino stated that the Senate is in session while the house is not. He
noted that there is a lot of activity in Washington as they are trying to get a
lot done before the summer recess. He shared that the Senate
Appropriations Subcommittee met recently to try to undo what the house is
trying to do. The Senate Subcommittee approved a little over $11 billion for
transit which is about $500 million more than the House Subcommittee. He
stated that both of these amounts are much less than what the President
asked for in his budget which was about $17.5 billion.
Mike Dino commented that RTD pays particular attention to the
Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant
program. He said that the senate has allocated $550 million, the house

$100 million while the President asked for $1.25 billion. Mike Dino shared
with the Board that the Senate number usually prevails in the appropriations
process. He pointed out that the House Committee also began restricting
TIGER. They do not allow any transit projects; they are completely focused
on highway, bridge, port and freight rail. He said that when the full House
Appropriations Committee did their mark-up of the bill they did fully fund the
New Starts program at $1.7 billion, which is good news for RTD.
Mike Dino reminded the Board that the current reauthorization expires on
September 30th while the Highway Trust Fund (HTF) runs out of money in
late July/early August. He stated that both sides are trying to figure out
how to pay for the HTF. The House version is to eliminate Saturday delivery
of the mail but this is very controversial because it is a one-time patch and
many people do not want to see that happen. In the Senate the
Chairwoman of the Environment and Public Works Committee, Barbara
Boxer, is suggesting that the HTF be replenished with a wholesale tax on
gas and diesel, eliminating the federal sales tax at the pump,
Mike Dino noted that the President’s reauthorization has allocated $550
million for Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) but has not changed the current BRT
definition. He stated that as the Board is aware, the goal was to get the old
definition back, which would allow RTD more flexibility. He said that this is
something his team will continue to pursue.
Mike Dino shared that General Manager Washington and Marla Lien, General
Counsel, put a report together for Congress and the FTA that discusses
what RTD learned from going through the New Starts process using the P3
platform. This follows-up on General Manager Washington’s testimony to
the P3 Special Panel. He stated that it is very positive that RTD is seen as a
resource and expert in this area.
Committee Chair Folska asked Mike Dino how he thinks RTD would fare
qualifying for BRT funding given that the definition may not fall back to the
SAFETEA-LU definition. Mike Dino explained that it would present a
challenge for RTD; there is a small amount of money, subject to a stricter
interpretation of BRT, that would be distributed to entities meeting that
definition.

C. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

D. Next Meeting Date - July 1, 2014
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 6:23 p.m. to the Planning and
Development Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

