2023-10-19
Executive Committee Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. The Thursday, October 19 Executive Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of noon.
I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you're recognize to
speak. I'm Lynn Guissinger and I am the Chair and I will call the roll. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Treasurer Dishell is out and excused. I am not yet seeing any other Directors
in attendance. Staff with us today are GM/CEO Debra Johnson and General Counsel Melanie Snyder and
the team, our Executive Manager Jack Kroll and Tai-Shrae Parish and the rest of the Board team, Jillian
Knapp Rhodes, [INAUDIBLE], and Brandy Hunter. OK. There's Michael Davies.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
Is there anybody in the queue to speak?
JACK KROLL: Chair Guissinger, there is no one here indicating a desire to speak and we received no
previously emailed public comments or public comments through any other avenue.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. With no participants in the queue, we will now close the public comment
period.
We have one Recommended Action this afternoon. As a reminder for the committee, staff, and anyone
watching or listening, any action items that are passed by the Executive Committee, even if the vote is
unanimous, will be included on the Board agenda under Recommended Actions so the full Board will
have an opportunity to discuss this measure.
The action under consideration by the committee is for the 2024 Legislative and Government Relations
program, which is for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2024 Legislative and Government Relations
program. Do we have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Director Davidson.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I hear Director Davidson and Sloan as the second. Michael Davies,
Government Relations Officer, can you please present this item?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair, member of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. This committee has received a presentation on this last month as a discussion item and
bringing this back as a recommended action this month. So I won't go too much into detail, as you've
already heard many of the changes that were made, which were very limited from last year's legislative
program.
Again, just quickly going through what was changed. The only addition was in that State section to simply
add supporting Zero Fare for Youth legislation. And so that was the addition. And that's subsection E
under the State section.
And then in the Local section also was to change some wording around from the previous year having to
do with subsection B in the local section. And that's having to do with the subregional service councils.
And if you all recall, last year it was standing up the subregional service councils and implementing them.
And this year it is continuing to administer and implement the function of the subregional service councils.
And with that, I will conclude my remarks and happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much. Is there any discussion or questions for Mr. Davies? OK,
seeing none, are there any no votes on this action? All right. With four yes votes and zero no votes, and
Director Dishell absent, the motion passes.
Next on our item, number 4, is the October Board meeting agenda review. Is there a motion to move the
October Board meeting agenda to the Board meeting on October 24?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Catlin as the movant and Director Sloan as the second. Is there any
discussion or questions about this schedule?
JACK KROLL: You mean about the agenda there?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry?
JACK KROLL: You had mentioned schedule. I think the question's about the agenda.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thank you. I'm not seeing any. So are there any no votes? All right with four
yes votes, zero no votes, and one absence, the motion passes.
All right. We have two discussion items on the agenda this afternoon. The first item is the monthly
Government Relations report. Again, Michael Davies, the floor is yours.

MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair, members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. Have a brief Government Relations report for you.
So starting at the federal level, really the focus is on finding a Speaker of the House. And that's really
necessary to process the next continuing resolution and keep government programs funded. Currently
those are funded through November 17, 2023. So we have a little less than a month before Congress will
need to either pass a full year appropriations or omnibus bill or approve another continuing resolution,
which would really fund government programs at FY23 levels. So that is really the focus at the federal
level.
The House T&I Committee did hold a hearing on Highway Trust Fund issues. And largely this is
something that the House T&I Committee and Senate Committees of Jurisdiction on Transportation
Programs, they often hold these regularly, at least once during a congressional session. And it's a good
opportunity to listen in and figure out what Congress is doing with regards to the bulk of the funding that
funds transportation programs. And that is really the gas tax that goes into the Highway Trust Fund. And
so Congress always holds a hearing on that and they did that just yesterday. So it's a good opportunity to
figure out what Congress is thinking for future funding of transportation programs.
That really concludes at the federal level. At the state level, the General Manager and Board Chair
participated in the Transportation Legislation Review Committee on Tuesday, October 3 covering topics
that focused on the Zero Fare for Better Air initial results that came out just from our July period and then
also covered some details with regards to our partnership program. The last time that we'd presented
before the TLRC, the announcement hadn't been made on the partnership program, so provided a few
more details there.
Additionally, RTD's General Manager and Chief People Officer did have an opportunity to present before
the TLRC in a smaller group during one of their tours. And that was really focused on RTD's efforts to
recruit and retain employees, which is an interest of topic to the committee. And that was well received
and I think provided a lot of good information to the committee on the robust programs that we have on
that topic.
And really then moving on, on the local level, again, RTD is actively working to build relationships,
maintain relationships, and keep our local government partners informed. And to that end, RTD's GM did
participate with the Northwest Mayors and Commissioners on Tuesday, September 26. And those topics
really included an update on the Northwest Rail Peak Service feasibility study, coordination with the Front
Range Passenger Rail, people power, subregional service councils, and funding awards related to the
call for projects partnership program. And received some good feedback from the Northwest mayors and
commissioners regarding the subregional service councils and that first implementation of the call for
projects partnership program.
So with that, that concludes my remarks and happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Did you have a question, Director Catlin? Looks like you-PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I'm not sure if Michael's the right person. But is there an update on the
discussions with Lutheran Hospital?
MICHAEL DAVIES: I can respond to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. You can, did you say?

MICHAEL DAVIES: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead. That'd be great.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. And thank you, Director Catlin. As you may know, Mayor Starker did write a
letter to Director Sloan on this topic. And I am working with staff, as well as our General Manager, to craft
a response to that for Director Sloan to consider. Outside of that, we are working with staff and plan to
reach out and set up a meeting to basically discuss the request on that. But that is basically where that
process is at this moment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much. And another question. I know there's been some dialogue with
Director Sloan, and to some extent me and then our GM/CEO Johnson, with regard to working with
Jefferson County School District. And just was wondering if there's an update on that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly, Madam Chair, and for the question, Director Catlin. So
Director Sloan copied me on a email transmittal that was sent inquiring about staff's interest in
coordinating with Jefferson County. We had not been made aware of that, as I indicated in my email
response. The Chief Communications Officer, Stuart Summers, reached out immediately on Monday and
scheduled a meeting with the appropriate individual that was referenced in the email. I can't say what
date that meeting is taking place. But as indicated, we were very responsive when that was brought to our
attention on Friday and immediately proceeded with contact on Monday, in that there is a meeting that is
pending.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you so much. I appreciate that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any other questions? Michael, you and I talked about this. I don't think it's come to
the Board fully, but the TLRC has drafted and approved a bill to submit that would provide funding for the
Zero Fare, probably one month, and for the youth fare, right?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, that is correct. The TLRC, as I reported last month, they were considering a
slate of 10 bills. They are allowed to advance 5 bills for early drafting consideration and to basically be
prepared before the legislative session begins in January. One of those 5 bills really took 2 bills out of the
10 that were originally being considered, combined them into one bill and move that through as the 5.
Included in that one bill is funding for a continued ozone season transit grant program, which is the grant
program administered through the Energy Office that funds Zero Fare for Better Air. And then building on
to the ozone season transit grant program was the addition of a Zero Fare for Youth grant program
statewide for agencies that are interested to apply and essentially either continue or create a Zero Fare
for Youth program at their own agency. And so both of those were a part of one of the bills that was
approved by TLRC.
Also included in that bill was a concept for CDOT to do some research and convene a panel on the
viability and implementation of a statewide transit pass. That was really supported by Senator Priola, and
then Representative Dixon also added a piece into that that wanted to look at personal income tax credits
related to expenses on transit passes. And so that's all wrapped into now one bill that was approved by
TLRC.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. And just, it's not in the list here, in the agenda here, but we do have
both Jennifer Brandeberry and Jen Webster, our state and local PR, public relations lobbyists, coming to
the Board meeting reporting on external entities on Tuesday night. So people can see them. It's been a
little while. Thank you very much, Michael. That's great.
Next item is the 2024 meeting calendar. I've got a couple-- I just talked with Jack Kroll about a couple of
things. And one of them is there are a couple of holidays that we traditionally don't meet right after. Martin
Luther King Day is the 15th. We have a Finance and Planning Committee meeting on the 16th and an
Operations and Safety Committee on the 17th. And then Memorial Day is the 27th. We moved the Board
meeting from that Tuesday to the Wednesday, the 29th.
I don't feel strongly on whether we should move these. Traditionally, we didn't meet the week of a holiday
like that. Memorial Day, since it's kind of kicking off summer would have, I think, a bit more of a risk that
people would be traveling and not able to make a meeting.
Are people OK with the schedule as it is? Should we think about moving the Memorial Day, that it would
probably mean moving the Finance and Planning and the Operations and Safety committees a week
earlier and then moving the Executive Committee and Board meetings a week earlier too. And I haven't-I just looked at this so I haven't even checked it out with Ms. Johnson or any others, staff side. But any
thoughts?
Are you OK moving the Board meeting to Wednesday after Memorial Day? Think just leave it as it is?
Peggy?
PEGGY CATLIN: I would be supportive of moving it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Think we'd get better turnout?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I do.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anybody else with thoughts? Yeah, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, thank you. I appreciate you all identifying the holiday conflict. I will
share that this meeting was circulated amongst members of the leadership team and there was
consensus around this. So I can say it could be moved, but I don't know what staff's availability is as it
relates to those leadership team members that support committees and/or the Board endeavors. So I just
provide that as a backdrop, recognizing that we have not had the opportunity to evaluate this, only the
schedule that was previously done. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I don't think there's such a rush. If we decided to-- I mean, what we could do is
just have you run it pass by the Executive Committee, I mean, the leadership team. And then I can work
with Jack to see. How do others feel? Jack, you go ahead. I'm sorry.
JACK KROLL: I was just going to suggest exactly what you said. If the GM/CEO wants to huddle with her
team and get back to the Board Office and if they're good, we can pull it forward. And if there's issues,
we'll let you know.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Any other thoughts? Nobody? OK. Maybe we'll do that, then. It's just looking at
that one meeting. Again, it's Martin Luther King Day. It seems like everybody's back from holidays around

then. So it doesn't seem like quite as big an issue, unless others disagree. All right. Then we will run
through that and publish the 2024 meeting dates.
In other matters, I want to go through what we did last night. But first, are there-- Debra, you have your
hand up still. OK. Does anyone else have other matters? Yeah, Marjorie. You're muted.
MARJORIE SLOAN: As usual. I have something that relates to what we talked about last night. So maybe
it'd be more appropriate after you spoke.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know what, I left my little sheet from last night downstairs. So y'all excuse me
for just a minute, and I'll be right back.
OK. Sorry about that. I went to talk this through with Jack this morning. And so I just wanted to go through
what I was hearing and how we move these forward.
The proposal for informal meetings for 3 or more Directors seemed to me like it had the support of 10
Directors. So my recommendation is to move that forward in November. And it would be coming to the
Executive Committee and then going to the Board in the November meeting as a recommended action.
And we talked about how we're trying to bring things forward as discussion items. But since we have
discussed this a lot, I think we will bring that forward as a recommended action. I'll just run through these
and then ask for suggestions or comments, if that's OK.
Second one is the length of the meeting time. There did seem to be a couple of people not thumbs up on
that one, but I still get the sense that we were pretty much there in terms of making the bylaw change. So
again, my suggestion is that we move that forward to the Executive Committee and the Board.
And both of those are bylaw changes. So the 10-day notice requirement would be met with by getting the
Executive Committee notice out. And Jack and I talked about having a special note in the email, when it
goes out, from the Board Office that points out that this is, publishing these two items is meeting the 10day notice requirement for considering the bylaws. So that was also come forward as a recommended
action in the November Board meeting.
The for developing annual committee work plans in the smaller committees-- the annual committee plans
is something we might want to put into the bylaws. We need to get something drafted and bring it back to
the Executive Committee next month, I think, is what we said, right, Jack? Yeah. The smaller committees,
I don't know that we need to do anything on that. No, I don't think we do. People liked it. We want to
continue it long term.
Setting certain committee appointments for two years. It seems like the next step on that one is to draft an
item for discussion. It was kind of just throwing the idea out. So the Board Office has offered to draft
something that we can look over and move that in for discussion with the Board.
Respecting staff work plans and time, that is an ongoing issue and something that, as I said in the
meeting, I think Debra and Jack and John McKay and I have been working on. If others have ideas,
they're welcome. And yeah, I think it was a good conversation that we had.
Expectations around virtual attendance. We'll draft a long-term recommended action that would certainly
make the 2022 motion, I guess it was 2023, that kept our Board meetings in person and virtual the same
as it is for 2023. We'll just make that the long-term process. And I don't think we talked about-- I don't
know that we need to keep that as a bylaw change. Just recommended action will move that forward.

Jack will also send out, or the Board will also send out a reminder that November 13 is an important inperson meeting. And probably best to send out a reminder on the Performance Committee meeting, or
meetings in December as well.
Then, creating a plan to help others recruit Board members. You know, I think that that really would help
to have a plan. I don't know what the-- I know the legislature, there's lots of talk they may change our
Board. But in the meanwhile, until we see what, if anything, happens there, I think it makes sense to
come up with a plan for starting with those three areas, and then if other Board members decide they're
not moving, they're not going to run again, we would expand it. But I think Jen Webster is a good source
there. And Michael Davies, might be a conversation you'd be helpful with.
But to have a plan that, maybe have a one-pager that talks about what the job is and get either the
current Directors in those three areas that are term limited, Broom, Tisdale, and Williams, to be going out.
We create a list of groups that might help us recruit and put out what sorts of skills we'd be looking for. So
I guess my suggestion is we pull together a meeting and try to put together a plan-- I don't think it's a
huge amount of work-- and run it past our senior staff and the Executive Committee and go from there.
Does that sound OK?
All right. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, all that sounds good. Just starting from that last one first, on the recruiting new
Board members and putting together a list of expertise, I do wonder if, and perhaps we could run this
through the Board Office or we can do this here, it might be good for us to draft up some of the type of
skill sets we'd be looking for. And actually, that 2010 audit that had highlighted the need for expertise, or
the lack of dedicated expertise, might be a good place for us to look.
But it might be good for the Board, or at least for this committee, to put together what we believe that list
is to bring forward to the Board. I know I've had some discussion with General Manager and CEO
Johnson on this and with you, Madam Chair, and some others. But just looking at the list next to me right
now, which is still very much draft, we have public finance, audit, executive leadership experience,
potentially operational leadership experience, government relations, transportation policy. Legal
experience or regulatory compliance specifically is something that the General Manager had brought up.
Representation of public interest and direct customer experience/advocacy.
I think corporate governance, public board expertise, I think there's a list that we-- there's probably-- those
are too many things and those are in draft, but it might be good for at least for us to dialogue in Executive
Committee to put together what that list might be, have the Board align around what we believe that might
be. Perhaps even our legislative counterparts that are looking at board governance and long-term
structure can be listening as we discuss that.
So just a recommendation that this committee discuss that. You mentioned, Madam Chair, that the Board
Office, Mr. Kroll was going to start working on what a plan might look like. And I'm curious to learn more
about that. Maybe we talk about that here. Maybe we don't. But I would love for a list that we agree on to
be part of that plan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I agree. I think that I've had this conversation with several people and with
Ms. Johnson and others, and I think that we can put together a good list. And I think it can go into a onepager with a little more about what the job is as well. I know that Director Williams has asked for that as
she's starting to talk to people.

And so I think that's a good suggestion. Maybe what we'll do is try to draft up a one-pager and a plan. And
if you or others want to send what you see as those areas of expertise, we'll put that in. And we can
discuss it next month, if that sounds good.
ERIK DAVIDSON: It sounds good. I'll send that to you and copy in the Board Office, just what I've done
here, and certainly encourage others to do so. I think you said last night, the importance of understanding
what problem we're trying to solve. I think whether there's outside, the legislature looking at long-term
board governance or whether it's ourselves looking at changes to our governance, we'd do well to align
around those problems.
And so I guess just to clarify, that particular problem is the one that I think is both felt and then has been
noted in I believe multiple Office of the State Auditor reports, which is the lack of consistent expertise.
And so if we have a process, an internal process, given that we have the structure we have for recruiting
for that, I think that-- that's the problem, I guess, just to align around, your stating that last night that I'm
looking to solve there, is agreeing on that. So I'll send what I've got written down. And yeah, thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'm going to jump to Ms. Johnson real quick and then back to Vice Chair
Catlin and Secretary Sloan.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Madam Chair. Prior to opening this up for discussion, you made
reference to a meeting and then you stated senior staff. And I wanted to know what qualifies senior staff,
because I'm not certain to whom you're referencing, that would be part of this discussion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I was going to leave that to you. Certainly, I think it would be good to have
you in the discussion, if that works, and whoever you want.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, that's fine. I just don't use that as a identifier so I didn't know what you meant.
LYNN GUISSINGER: If I had something in mind? I don't. Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Very good. And then I just wanted to note some word usage. As we talk about
the roles on the Board, oftentimes people had said jobs. And I think that's where we get the blurring of
lines, because basically this is an elected position, for all intents and purposes, and not a job. And when
we make reference to expertise, really and truly, I mean, somebody on the Board necessarily would not
have expertise. They would have knowledge of and experience in. But when you talk about expertise,
that's basically honed over a period of time. And so recognizing that somebody who has expertise in
utilizing the system, I wouldn't necessarily qualify that as expertise.
And so as we go through this process, I just wanted to take the opportunity to say, let's be deliberate in
our word choice. Because while it's important to know about regulatory compliance, I would doubt that we
would be able to find somebody to fill the position of a Board member that has expertise in that area,
unless there was somebody working in a certain capacity doing rulemaking and things of the like that
would effectuate certain rules and regulations to which we'd have to adhere.
And so I just use that as an example, not to be critical, but think it's very, very important, as we try to
create a framework, we're looking for certain attributes and areas of experience that could be leveraged
as we go forward, as opposed to expertise. Because while I'm in this role, I don't pride myself on having
expertise in certain areas. however, I pride myself on being knowledgeable and having experience in. So
I think it's very important that we make that distinction as we go down this path and try to create some

kind of framework which may be able to help us identify optimal people to fill the positions of members of
the Board of Directors. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Very well taken. Thank you. I think we look at knowledge and experience. And I
know that you have thought about some of those areas too. So if you will contribute those. What I'd like to
do maybe is start off with some sort of rough draft idea and then pull together a meeting with really any of
us that want to be in it, but certainly you, Debra, and Jack and I. So Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Actually, General Manager/CEO Johnson captured my thoughts as well.
Because it will be very difficult to find candidates for an elected position that have expertise in one or
more of those areas, but having familiarity, knowledge, and experiences, I agree completely important.
On another note, in the past we had relied on the Transit Alliance to help in recruiting potential Board
candidates. And they have dissolved. And I believe that their work has been consumed, or subsumed,
maybe, by DRCOG in their Leadership Academy. So I don't know if we want to maybe have a dialogue
with Doug Rex, just to see how they could be helpful, as we look to recruit qualified and quality
candidates. That's one thought.
Another thought that I had that's completely separate is, I think in those three districts that you outlined, it
might be helpful to have each of those Directors host a Town Hall, and we could support them in that and
try and get people interested in coming to just learn what the Board is about and who's on it and some of
the goals and our strategic goals and how we want people to support that. I just think that that might be a
way to engage the community. Just a thought.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Those are all very good thoughts and I think ones we'll also want to follow up
on. And in terms of what Transit Alliance used to do it, that would sort of be a second level is, can we find
someone who would kind of do some vetting. And maybe that's-- well, I know that when I first ran, Dr.
Mack, Kate's old group, did some forums where all the candidates answered questions. That kind of fell
apart, I think, during the pandemic. Some group or groups that would want to weigh in and do some
forums or some vetting or something like that, I think is a good idea.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might follow up?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: So when I was appointed to fill a vacancy-- and Director Davidson was also appointed
to fill a vacancy-- the Transit Alliance approached me about applying but there was a pretty detailed
application process through the county that I had to go through. And I'm sure Director Davidson did too.
But I don't know if I can find that correspondence, but some of the attributes that you said the
commissioners were seeking might be something that we could include in Director Davidson's initial pass
at these qualifications.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Yeah, if it's something you can find, that'd be great. All right. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sure. Unless you want to take Jack first, who might-- no? OK.
This has to do with a discussion last night that I thought was really helpful concerning communications
between the Board and staff, relaying issues, and then what happens next, how are the responses going
to be updated and tracked. And I'm really hopeful that we're going to get a good process.

This has to do with a sub issue of concerns that relate to the same process. And that is the Board's
involvement on an issue that relates to staff's planning and budgeting process. How is that handled? And
I think some of you know-- I'm talking about-- I was with a group and we were concerned with minimal
signage for the end of the line Ward Road Station for the G Line from Ward Road itself. And that is yet
another concern of constituents, but it also is much more related to staff's capital improvement budgeting
process. How can Board members who are aware of such a need insert themselves or their issue into
that process?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thanks for that question, because I had it at the same time. And I assume
we'll get Ms. Johnson. But it did seem like with the answers that were coming back there, there should be
a way-- and I think somebody got back to you and said they were looking at it-- but a way for the Board to
be able to bring something forward. And it wasn't clear to me. I think we might want to have Ms. Johnson
answer this. Jack, did you have something on that or-- OK.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And I would, not only bring something forward but understand how it's progressing
through the process.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Sloan, for your question and providing that very clear
example. I would say that it sends back to the discussion that ensued last night about the agency
response. When this was brought to my attention and I read through the thread, it appears as if we had
an individual within the organization that wanted to be responsive. And somebody within a lower level of
the organization took it upon themselves to be very responsive and forthright and own the issue that was
brought to their attention and reach out to somebody else in a similar level position at another
organization.
[INAUDIBLE] recognizing staffing requirements and resources and the like, an additional correspondence
that happened with the state Department of Transportation, per se, that there was a lot more that was
involved in mitigating this issue that appears to be very, I would say, low hanging fruit, for a lack of a
better phrase that comes to mind. So recognizing that we have to create a process whereby there is an
understanding of how this should have happened, it gets back to the operational, administrative, and then
the policy aspect that I said we need to carve out. So that's one facet that needs to be addressed that
we're going to work towards to mitigate.
Secondly, as it relates to where we are, from a budgetary process, I believe this will help in the sense of
crafting committee work plans. Because when we're talking about doing something outside of what we
have established, recognizing we have three initiatives that we as a staff are working on that spawned
from our strategic priorities, where it may seem simple to say, hey, we want to put a sign here to help
people get to our station, there's a lot of different elements that are involved, including intergovernmental
agency agreements. And while the monetary price may be low, we still have to factor that in and what's
been allocated. And that comes to the Board's attention.
That's a long winded way of saying that I believe, succinctly, that the Board can have a say in what they
want to do but should be included in said budget process relative to where we are with the initiatives that
we have outlined for the forthcoming year and can identify a line item that may be able to address this.
Because right now, we'll have to drop something to do something else to ensure this comes to fruition and

pull somebody off of something just because of where we are with our staffing, but more importantly, with
the priorities that we have holistically that we really are behind on.
So work to be done, Director Sloan. And I recognize the frustration that can ensue. And there were mixed
messages, as I looked and I'm Monday morning quarterbacking this, because it went to a certain group of
individuals that basically make signs and don't implement policy that's been set. And so then we had to
have somebody higher in the organization come back and say, time out, we were told by CDOT we can't
do this.
So I hope that provides some insight. It seems as if I'm talking in circles. That's not my intent. But this is
one of those issues that really panned out as we talk about the need for a comprehensive and consistent
and succinct agency response. Because I believe that could have been mitigated if, in fact, we had the
right people addressing it from the outset that probably could have been shored up in a much more
expeditious fashion. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So I'm going to go back to Marjorie and to Jack, both. But it's a good example of
how frustrating finding an approach is. Because it seemed like a tiny request that shouldn't necessarily
have to go to you, Debra. What I was hearing last night is that policy questions and electeds' questions
and some of those things come to you. And this one kind of, it grew up. And then even when it went to a
higher level in the agency, that's when it raised a policy question, which was, the answer to Marjorie's
question came back as, we can't do this, rather than, this is probably not something we can do this year
but this is how you could get this in line. And that's really the answer I think that we're looking for, I think,
as Board members.
I'm going to go back to Ms. Johnson real quick. And then Marjorie, you took your hand back down, but-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. And thank you so much, Chair Guissinger, and thank you, Director Sloan. I
don't disagree with you. What I will say-- and please, I want to preface my comments by saying I am not
one to throw anybody under the bus. And I shouldn't use that analogy, because that's horrific when
somebody is thrown under a bus degloved is horrible.
So let me say that I am supportive of staff. But I want to qualify that we do have some folks working in
acting capacities and may not approach it in the same manner of being more strategic and getting to yes,
whereas I believe the response was more tactical. Whether that's good, bad, or indifferent, that's
something for me to work on as we cultivate and understand how we can coalesce around a issue and
get to yes.
And I say that, case in point, Director Sloan and I had a instance whereby she was working through
different channels. And we do have some legacy employees where it's always no, no, no, we can't do
this, as opposed to stepping back and figuring out what we can do. Because people are overworked and
may not approach it from the same vantage point.
So I would just say that that's something that I will take on. Because we need to explain the parameters
and not be that agency of no, because, to the point that you raised, Madam Chair, there's a way of about
going toward solutions. And I think that was a missed opportunity.
And I'll leave it there, because I have talked with both of you and generally, it shouldn't have to be it has
to come to my office and we can figure it out. But it's cultural and we're trying to work through that. And
that's what I'll end my comments on. So thank you both for broaching that.

And in these instances, I will say that these are the times that it can come to my attention. And if I have to
lean in, that's what it's about, to provide that support and guidance and there are some instances in which
that could have been done. And I just think this was an unfortunate circumstance relative to, we can't do
that, but more specifically, there was something that had been codified, more or less, for lack of a better
term, working with CDOT about the signage, from what I understand. And somebody didn't know that
because they were in a different level in the organization. And as I said, their responsibility is to make
signs. Very important job, but-LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll just reiterate something that I think both Marjorie and I said last night, which is
we are in a sea change from where we were with the non-GMR report. So at least we're discussing how
the process is, the message gets back to people, and I know that you are working with staff to get us to
yes, even if it's a delay.
So I'm going to give Marjorie the next chance, and back finally to you, Jack. I'm trying to get there.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Right. This would be-- I mean, that example was kind of a hot mess. And I'm
thinking if we do have a system and get regular updates, it would really resolve a lot of these isolated
incidents.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. All right, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Thank you. I just wanted to mention two things. You had mentioned earlier, Chair
Guissinger, about getting a reminder out to Board members about December dates. In checking with our
staff, and since we have the GM and CEO and Director Davidson and yourself here, who are sort of
mapping out this timeline, we only have-- this is just a reminder, no conversation needs to ensue on this-we only have a December 4 Performance Committee date calendared for December. We still would need
to calendar a full Board meeting.
So I'm just putting that out there for others to discuss. And we can set that date once everyone is on the
same page. And then, of course, remind folks.
And then the second piece-- but I see GM/CEO Johnson has unmuted. Did you want to address that real
quick and then I can-DEBRA JOHNSON: I did, Mr. Kroll. Thank you very kindly, Madam Chair, if I may. So when we had that
conversation, the intent behind that, of course, there would a Performance Committee, but then there
would be a special Board meeting. And when the discussion ensued, and I see Director Davidson, Chair
Davidson of the Performance Committee, our intent was to then have the special Board meeting the
same day. So that was the intent there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm glad you raised this, because I didn't have that on my calendar. I had the
Performance Committee at 8:30 in the morning on the 4th. So we combine the two? Did you have a plan
on that, either-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. We would have the discussion in Performance Committee and then it would
carry over into a special Board meeting, because the Board would have to act. And that's what we did in
previous years. Not saying that's the right thing, but for all intents and purposes, that's what took place
last year, as we look to minimize schedules, or maximize schedules, I should say, and minimize the
number of meetings, that was the intent.

So perhaps something got lost in translation, but that was always the intent when we put together that
timeline that was presented on October, I believe, 3rd, or whatever the meeting was where we went
through that, that was the intent there, if you go back and look, there was a special Board meeting the
same day.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So is the Board-- should both of those be at 5:30? I've got the Performance
Committee in my calendar at 8:30. That may just be my problem.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. And it could have been calendared that way as we mapped it out. But we
could, if we want to do it that way. I'm just saying the intent was to have it on the same day, as we did
previously with, there was a committee and then you all had a special Board meeting to take action.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So one in the morning, one at night, possibly, or-DEBRA JOHNSON: Possibly. I'll leave that to people to determine schedules. I mean, if we want to
change the time of the meeting so we can go into one into another, I'm totally amenable to that. But what
I'm saying is when these meetings were calendared for Performance Committee, the time slot was 8:30,
but recognizing that there could be flexibility, no different from on November 13, where we're having the
Performance Committee and it's at 5:30. I'm saying I'm amenable to either way, but basically, the same
day, that was the intent so we wouldn't have to calendar an additional meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Erik, did you have something on that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Just apologies if anything was lost in translation from me on this. Just wanted to
confirm that was the intent was to do a special Board meeting immediately following that. Now that, as
we're discussing this, I do believe that last year's special Board meeting took place in the evening on
December 6.
But I'll go back and check on that and I'll take an action to work with the Board Office and Mr. Kroll, we
can work together on what notifications need to go out and how we calendar that. But the intent would be
to have the Performance Committee followed by a special Board meeting. And I'll go back and take a look
at last year's flow and we can work together on how to get attendance there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And if they're going to be together, I guess I'm wondering if moving it to the 5th,
which is our normal meeting night, makes more sense. But I'll leave it to y'all to look at. Is that not good,
Debra? I don't care. I'm just-- people sort of think Tuesday nights. But it's OK. All right. Back to you, Jack.
JACK KROLL: Great. Well, I'll make sure we follow up, Director Davidson and the GM and CEO
appropriately, and we can get that sorted and appropriate notice given, and then we will tell them once,
tell them again, and tell them a third time to make sure everyone knows when those meetings are.
My last point is just a point of emphasis as word choice matters. When we discuss this process for raising
awareness around the Board and elections, I think we really need to couch our conversation around this
idea that we are providing and promoting, providing information to promote candidates to run. And that's
kind of the extent of our role in the Board Office. We don't want to get in too deep into encouraging some
people and not others or doing any kind of vetting. Just want to make sure we're clear about that.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that's a good point. Ms. Johnson and Ms. Snyder-- I'd like to see if there's a
way to find some group or groups that would do some vetting. And it may be that we're just encouraging
anybody that wants to. But let's see. I think Ms. Johnson and then Ms. Snyder.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly. This is going back to the Performance Committee and
special Board meeting. I looked, December 5 isn't a problem. December 3, we had just agreed on that
first Monday, so I just wanted to qualify that.
And I'm sure General Counsel Snyder would speak to this, and I support Mr Kroll's comments, we do
have to be careful in reference to how we're qualifying what it is that we're doing. You all are an elected
body and don't have any auspices over who can run as a candidate, recognizing that's one of the issues
that I personally see, recognizing there's no eligibility criteria and things of the like so as we identify
individuals, that does not give them a one up, per se.
Because in the event of being fully transparent, there is one individual, for instance, that is running now,
and I use that term loosely, who has reached out to my office several times wanting a meeting and so
forth. And I meet with members of the public and that's just what it is. It's qualifying it as a meeting with a
public individual that may be interested in public transport.
So I'll yield the floor to General Counsel Snyder. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I agree, and want to hear from Ms. Snyder. But I think we are encouraging
groups in the community to look around to encourage people to run and potentially do some vetting along
the way, but we're not doing it. All right, Melanie.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yeah, so just to reiterate, I think it makes sense to do
some of this outreach and provide information about what it means to be a Director, the qualities that
would be useful to be a Director. I think all of that is really appropriate and good. As Mr. Kroll pointed out,
as we get closer to when candidates might be announcing, we really need to be very careful about
running afoul of the Fair Campaign Practices Act. We can't use any staff resources or time to either
support or oppose any candidates. And so as we get closer to that time period, we'll just want to be really
careful about how we're communicating and the extent to which we're sharing this information.
So I just would encourage you to think about it in terms of outreach and providing information, but not
leaning toward vetting people or identifying particular candidates.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you. This is an important point. And thanks, Mr. Kroll, for raising it.
So I guess I just want to make sure that this would be, with General Counsel Snyder, part of my thinking
on putting forward the types of skills that would be helpful or experience-- and thank you, General
Manager Johnson, important distinction between expertise and experience-- the type of experience that
would be helpful for the sake of the public, for the sake of this Board, I would think it would be appropriate
for us to speak about that generally, which is where I think it might be useful for the Board to take a
position on what that list may be and then not be involved in the individual level. And probably the sooner
that we do that prior to an election starting, so to speak, the better.

But I guess I just want to check in, because this is an important nuance. If, General Counsel, you want to
elaborate any further on that, if that's a proper characterization, if you'd add any more details or thoughts
or advice to that.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Director Davidson. I think that's exactly right, the way you've described
it, providing the information about what it means to be a Director, providing information about what
knowledge, skills, and abilities might be useful to somebody to be a Director, but not focusing on
individual potential candidates.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Marjorie.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And I would just like to take this opportunity to get legal advice. And that is
concerning an individual Board member, however, can endorse and support a candidate for a position on
the Board. Is that correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, it is. And you know, since this is a public meeting, I think what I'll do, there is a
memo that we had circulated to the Board previously that provides a little bit more detail around that. So I
think what I'll do is update that and send that around so that you all have that information at your
fingertips.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That'd be great. That'd be great.
OK. Well, I think there's a lot of direction for moving this forward and I think we'll try to move this forward
pretty quickly. Anybody that would like to be involved with this process, I think Mr. Kroll will be helping pull
it all together. But do let me know if you'd like to help with putting together the plan and the one-pager.
And then we'll bring it to everybody here and then ultimately-- it's a good idea, Erik, to take the list and the
one-pager or whatever to the Board and keep everybody in the loop, get their blessing. All right?
All right. I don't think-- are there any other matters? I think that's where we are here.
All right. The next Executive Committee meeting is scheduled for Thursday, November 16. Seeing no
other discussion, this meeting is adjourned. Thanks, everybody. Good meeting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
MARIE SNELL: Bye.

