Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, PhD, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Tina Francone, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, February 6, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Paul Solano

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Solano called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:13 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Absent

5:25 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:02 PM
5:33 PM
5:15 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:31 PM

Ken Mihalik
Chuck Sisk

Director, District G
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:14 PM
5:30 PM

Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District K
Committee Vice-Chair
Committee Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:18 PM
5:26 PM
5:06 PM

Tai-Shrae Parish

Senior Board Office Liaison

Present

David A. Genova

General Manager and CEO

Present

Staff Present:

Caitlin Arnold, Rolf Asphaug, Martha Bembry, Nicole Carey, Jessie
Carter, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Anthony
Forrester, David Genova, Bob Grado, Doug Gragg, Cory Granrud,
Pauline Haberman, John Hersey, Russ Larson, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Andy Mutz, Greg
Peterson, Michael Porter, Scott Reed, Ruth Seleske, Steve Smith,
Henry Stopplecamp, Gary Turnquist, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma, Paul Von Fay

Others Present:

Shelly Cook, Mike Dino, William Gross, Julie McKenna, Roger
Sherman, Don Stitt, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL & Associates
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, said that his report in the Board packet covered
the discussions surrounding the legislative transportation sales tax. He said that the
Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) and a separate coalition working on the issue would
come to decisions that week, and he anticipated that ballot titles would be filed as
well. He highlighted the upcoming Colorado Counties, Inc. (CCI) and Colorado
Municipal League (CML) conferences and said that the Board would find the
conferences to be beneficial. He stated that CRL Associates would host a dinner
during the CML conference.
Director Lubow said that Mr. Sherman’s report spoke about a letter from MMC and
asked for clarification on what MMC was requesting.
Mr. Sherman replied that the coalition had agreed to a distribution formula of 45%
for the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), 15% for a new multimodal
fund, and 40% split evenly between cities and counties. He said MMC wanted to
request a $.01 tax in the ballot measure, though he noted there was some
opposition from the rest of the state. He stated that, if the tax rate in the proposal
came in less than $.01, MMC wanted to reduce the amount that would go to
CDOT to 35% in order to maintain the level of funding to local jurisdictions. He said
that MMC requested that proportional changes be made if the proposed tax is set
at $.005 or $.0062, which was the rate proposed in House Bill 17-1242.
Director Lubow asked Mr. Sherman to explain the sales tax distribution chart to her
offline.

Director Menten asked whether the ballot measure would only result in statutory
changes, and Mr. Sherman responded that was correct.

• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
Julie McKenna, Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK), said that Senator
Bob Gardner and Representative K.C. Becker had introduced Senate Bill 18-088
(SB088), which aimed to correct the drafting error in Senate Bill 17-267, which
eliminated the ability of the Scientific and Cultural Facilities District (SCFD), RTD,
and other special districts to collect taxes on marijuana sales. She said the House
Finance Committee heard the bill the previous day and that it would be heard on
the House floor that week, where it would wrap up quickly. She said that state
legislators were also working on their own transportation measures while the ballot
questions were being ironed out. Specifically, she said that Senate Bill 18-001
(SB001), regarding transportation bonds, centered on bonding using state general
fund dollars. She said that SB001 was the main legislative vehicle at the time but
said there would be others.
Megan Wagner, BBMK, said there was a stakeholder group looking at a bill to
create a true one call system. She said that BBMK was participating in those
conversations to make sure that RTD’s concerns would be addressed. She said the
bill would likely be introduced the following day.
Director Lubow asked how well SB088 was passing through the legislative process.
Ms. McKenna responded that everything was going very well. She said that,
following the special legislative session in 2017, the direction was to formulate a
solution in a different way. She added that SB088 had 18 Senate and 33 House
cosponsors, enough votes to ensure its passage.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs (SPB) said that the federal government was
operating under a continuing resolution (CR) and stated the House had recently
passed a continuing resolution to fund the government through March 23, 2018.
He noted that the House version of the resolution fully funded the Department of
Defense (DoD). He added that the Senate was closing in on a deal that would fund
the federal government for the following two fiscal years, though he noted the vote
on that legislation would not take place before the expiration of the existing CR on
Thursday, February 8, 2018. He said that the Senate would likely remove the
additional DoD funding authorized by the House. He noted that the President had
stated that he would not sign any funding legislation that did not deal with
immigration and was comfortable with the federal government entering another

shutdown. He said the House and Senate could agree to another six-week CR
extension. Mr. Dino stated that SPB’s report covered the pending infrastructure
plan, which he said the White House planned to release on February 12, 2018. He
said there were questions about long-term transportation funding and noted that, in
the GOP retreat the previous week, House Transportation Committee Chair Bill
Shuster stated his interest increasing the balance of the Highway Trust Fund. He
said Rep. Shuster identified a raise in the gas tax as a way of achieving that.
Director Folska asked whether the current federal excise tax on gasoline was still
$.185 cents per gallon.
Mr. Dino stated that he thought that was correct.
Director Folska said that it should be easy for Congress to raise that tax, because
Pennsylvania Governor Ed Rendell had been able to do so even with a state
legislature controlled by Republicans. She asked by how much Rep. Shuster
intended to raise the tax.
Mr. Dino said that the proposal was not specific and noted that a portion of the
House Republican caucus would not listen to the proposal. He said he was not sure
how much traction the proposal would receive.
Director Archuleta asked whether there was any validity in the President’s
announcement during the recent State of the Union Address that he intended to put
$1.3 trillion into infrastructure.
Mr. Dino said that the President wanted to put the onus on local and state
governments to come up with the seed money. He said that RTD, for example, was
able to win a full funding grant agreement (FFGA) because the agency committed
50% of the funding for the project, whereas most contemporaneous state and local
projects offered only 20%, which made RTD more competitive. He said the
President indicated that state and local project would have to commit to 80% of
the funding for a project, while the federal government would supply the remaining.
He said that such a financing structure was a heavy lift for state and local projects
but said that, in some ways, that was the reality for the transportation industry.

D. Other Matters
Director Menten mentioned that one of RTD’s properties was located next to the
Federal Center Station. She said that 59 acres of federal land would soon be
auctioned off by the federal government and that, pursuant to the McKinney-Vento
Homeless Assistance Act, agencies that provide assistance to homeless populations
had first rights to auctioned federal land. She noted that a portion of the land was
contaminated because of its prior use as a federal munitions plant. She said that
the auction was held up in the courts at that time but said that 500-600 units of
transitional housing would potentially be erected on the site. She said that quite a
few local elected officials were not happy with the situation. She asked that staff

contact her offline to explain RTD’s posture with regard to its property in that
location.
General Manager Genova asked whether Director Menten was referring to the land
previous used for the Cold Spring Park-n-Ride, and Director Menten said yes.
General Manager Genova said that he would follow up with staff.
Director Menten said that the housing assistance agencies would not initially have
the money to build typical housing structures and that they had described building
something akin to igloos instead. She said that it may be some time before there
would be enough money to build permanent structures on the site.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 3, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Solano adjourned the meeting at 5:51 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

