1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, April 2, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:57p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
6:56 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:58 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:58 PM
6:56 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:56 PM
6:58 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:57 PM
7:01 PM
6:58 PM

Natalie Menten

Vice Chair

Present

6:58 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:58 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:56 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:58 PM
6:58 PM

Director Solano left early. Director Rivera-Malpiede was absent as she left during the
FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Lee Cryer, Chuck Culig, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson, Tina
Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Patrick
McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Pranaya
Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Edie Bryan, Mike Dino, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Miller
Hudson, David Lewis, Darien O'Brian, Joe Racosky, Jacob Riger,
Marta Sipeki, Jo Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Hugh Wilson

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Transit Oriented Development Update
Bill Sirois, TOD Planning Coordinator introduced the TOD team Kate Iverson,
TOD Manager and Patrick McLaughlin TOD Associate. He stated that the
pilot program was initiated at the end of 2010. Their TOD Annual Status
Reports will be coming out shortly covering all of the activities going on
around existing and planned stations from the development standpoint. The
report covers developments that are under construction or in process of
being approved at the local jurisdiction level. Staff uses this report as a
resource when trying to inform the community and help them understand
RTD goals.
The TOD program provides new Board members an overview and works
with local jurisdictions in planning issues. Over 40 stationary plans have
been developed since FasTracks was passed and the TOD staff has provided
input for those plans. They also provide support to the different corridors
like the I-225. They try to facilitate the implementation of TOD and how to
best integrate development with RTD station locations.
On March 1 they released a RFQ for a master development plan for Olde
Town Arvada Station. Staff has been working with the City of Arvada and
has several developers showing interest. They expect to have a developer
selected by mid-June.

With regard to the University of Denver garage and the retail space, they
have reached out to some subject matter experts in retail and commercial
development to look at how they would position that space and what we
can do as an agency to help. Once they have their input they will come
back to the Board with ideas.
On the I-225 they have initiated a process with the city to look at a TOD
market assessment. The city has expressed great interest in the 13th
Avenue Station where RTD owns 10 acres of property which will only
partially be needed for transit. They are trying to see if there is an
opportunity for development.
Director Lubow asked how the TOD program matches up to what was
expected or what TOD does in general. She wonders if we have measured
our program against the existing statistics on increase for retail and
residential building. Bill Sirois stated that the report that will come out in a
week or two which covers the trends they have seen in the last couple of
years in terms of the levels of development. He clarified that though transit
does have an influence on development, it is not the only element’ there has
to be some other elements in place like market, vehicular access, etc. The
report also covers a lot of what has happened regionally. A section of the
report includes trends both at the regional and national levels in terms of
demographics, general building and where the market is going. At this point
apartments are hot and everybody is building multi-family apartments, in a
year from now demand could be for office space. There is an expectation
for TOD with FasTracks, staff is trying to follow those plans and see what
happens. For the TOD perspective it is going to take 50 years beyond
FasTracks to realize the full impact.
Director Folska asked who the SMA that provided the information with
regard to the retail space is. Bill Sirois stated that they contacted Larimer
Associates, Axio Commercial Real Estate and the Denver Housing Authority
to get a different perspective from a non-profit institution. Director Folska
asked if any of them were actual developers. Bill Sirois stated that Larimer
is a developer. Director Folska asked what the parking requirement is for
multi-family housing for the University Station specifically. Bill Sirois stated
that he thinks it allows up to 50% reduction in terms of parking, but he did
not have that information. Denver requirement is 1½ parking spaces per
unit. He will provide the information to Director Folska. Director Folska
asked if they have looked into facilitating mixed-used development. She
also asked if they have considered a cross-walk on the south side of the
parking structure at the Buchtel Station. Bill Sirois stated that they can talk
to the city as it is their purview. Staff can reach out to the city to look into
connections from an accessibility stand point.

Chair Anderson stated that everybody in Arvada is very excited about what
is going on at Olde Town and appreciate what the RTD staff does.
Director Walker stated that when the Denver Planning Board wrote the new
zoning code they were not trying to reduce for building close, they were
trying to get the zoning right so that a lot of guess work wouldn’t have to
be done. He thinks that the change was from 1 space per 300ft. to 1 space
per 500ft. They were trying to make it easy for developers to have an exact
number of parking spaces or square footage that they can have near a
transit station. He also thanked Bill Sirois for the comments that transit
itself is not the only element required to sprout development.
Director Tobiassen stated that based on the different pilot projects that have
been a success and with opportunities for TOD projects on the 225 corridor,
he wonders if RTD has a potential site to influence development at 13th to
create a pilot program and some aggressive development. He knows the
city of Aurora is very interested in doing something at each station. Also, at
the Road Ahead Conference last week, there was a lot of discussion about
TOD and he suggested reaching out nationally since Denver has so much
potential. We can bring developers from around the world to move us to the
next level in development. Bill Sirois stated that last year we had a great
opportunity when the Urban Land Institute hosted its fall meeting here in
Denver. They brought 6,000 developers from around the world and
FasTracks was a big part of it. RTD had a lot of exposure, different staff
members were part of the different panels. RTD has also reached out to
developers in and out of Denver; we try to market ourselves as much as we
can. Director Tobiassen stated that he also mentioned the concept of a
Road Show, taking RTD along with other economic development partners
making presentations to bring that kind of investment to the region.
Director Hoy stated that about 9 months ago, there was a lot of activity
with regard to the Alameda Denver Design District. He was at the station
and it doesn’t look like anything has happened. Kate Iverson stated that a
large part of the Alameda project was attached to the City of Denver storm
water Pipe, that portion of the project came in slightly over the estimated
amount. The city and developer have been at the table and the city has
contributed an extra $3.8 million and anticipates breaking ground soon on
the storm water portion. Staff is meeting with them tomorrow to do some
initial coordination within the next month. They expect closing in Q3 of this
year and break ground shortly thereafter.
Director Daly thanked Bill for his presentation at Transit Solutions in
Glendale. He also thanked Director James for inviting the Board members to
the Road Ahead; he found the presentations very refreshing.

Director Bagley stated that what the TOD team has done is exemplary in
getting this off the ground. He also stated that every station with TOD
would be different, there would never be another Fitzsimmons, and TOD is
by itself something that depends on access, residential development and
other elements. In reference to the pilot programs, he hopes that staff
knows where they will go once the pilot programs are initiated. Every
corridor in the metro area is looking at what the TOD opportunities are and
that is why every community changes their comprehensive plans to grow
around the stations. He looks forward to seeing the report.
Director Walker stated that there are so many characteristics for each
project. These are conversations that are great to have; he likes the
enthusiasm folks have for Denver and TOD.
Director Bagley stated that with so many TOD opportunities, they are not on
our property; they surround our properties, which is why the Chambers of
Commerce and other entities need to promote them.
Director James thanked the staff for their presentation. He stated that the
job of the TOD staff is to be a catalyst for TOD to happen around the transit
stations we are developing so the communities can benefit more from our
development. There is a distinction between TOD and Transit Proximate
development, where you can be close to a station, but if it has not been
planned in advance, it won’t be a “place maker” where people want to go
and conveniently get there with seamless transition between modes of
transportation. He is pleased that RTD staff is doing a great job. The Board
needs to stay on track of what the staff is doing, they are trying to
encourage the different stakeholder to work together and have a plan for
each station. The Alameda station is a great example; with much work the
station is going to evolve, though it is a complex process. He also
mentioned that parking requirements are becoming less important, as they
are focusing in good design and have access to a location and it makes a
difference if you are close to a station. With regard to the strip malls, he
stated that it is a challenge to find people that can do the development, but
that also the lenders might be a constraint as there are different fronts to
operate. The Board has an opportunity to work with the staff to make this
happen. The Board needs to use all the resources available to encourage
good development to happen around or stations as early as it possibly can.
Director James thanked everybody for their participation.
Director Folska stated it is important that the different kinds of development
are used for TOD. She also mentioned that the reason multi-family rentals
are being developed is that financing is not available for owner occupied at
units for TOD. She thinks that the Board might want to consider the
DRCOG study for SB52 which hopefully will be submitted looking at liability

issues to encourage developers and financiers to build owner occupied units
at TODs.
Director James stated that Senate Bill 52 is an important piece of
legislations. Bill Sirois stated that they will be sending a memo to address
the real property with regard to the acquisition and disposition of property.
This will be sent to the Board this week.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - May 14, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 7:33 p.m. to the Special Board
Meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

