## I. Call to Order

Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 12:01 p.m.

#### 1. Roll Call

Committee Members Present:              Chair Sisk, 1st Vice-Chair Hoy, Second Vice-Chair James, Secretary Walker, Secretary Tobiassen

Other Board members Present:              Directors, Anderson, Bagley and  Folska (via phone)

Others Present:              General Manager Washington, Paula Perdue, Adrian Mabry, Sherry Ellebracht

## II. April Board Meeting Agenda Review

Chair Sisk reviewed the April agenda for the April 15 Board meeting.  General Manager Washington noted we did not have any retirees this month.  He also noted that there are no items on the unanimous consent but three items on the recommended action.

Motion:                Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve the agenda for the April 15, 2014 Board meeting.

Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:              General Manager Washington commented that he believed there was some confusion about the adoption of 2015 performance measures.  He stated that the fare rate increase was not a component of this action item.  Director Folska responded that she was the one who brought this issue up and understands there is a difference.  However, she questions us changing or lowering the performance measures while later in the same year having the possibility for a fare rate increase.

Chair Sisk indicated three things that could have been clearer:

(1)     The requested change in the performance measure by Bruce Abel to lower the on-time performance and the regional express time should have been made earlier and information provided to the Board members for them to digest prior to the meeting.  He requested a follow up memo to the Board on this change and the rationale.

(2)    It is not quite clear on the net effect of goal 4.1 in terms of changing how it is calculated to average TIC speed to answer.  It appears that by changing the point in which it is measured, it does lower the goal.

(3)    Board members were confused by the discussion of impacts that come from 2016 openings when we were evaluating what should be the 2015 performance measures.

Vote on Motion:              The motion passed with all committee members in favor.

Chair Sisk declared this motion PASSED Unanimously.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee

Committee Chair Bagley indicated he would share that the survey monkey survey would be sent out on April 15th.  Board members will have the window between April 15-30 for completion.

Director Folska inquired if the question of anonymity has been addressed.  Director Bagley referred this question to Chair Sisk for a response.  Chair Sisk indicated that the survey will be issued without reference to names.  It is incumbent on each Board member to respond in accordance with his/her governance responsibilities on the Board.  We will simply have numbers on who did/did not respond and nothing else.

Director Tobiassen asked how will we know that the same person did not provide multiple responses.  What mechanism is in place to monitor this?  Paula Perdue will check with IT.

Director Bagley reemphasized that in 2009 the state audit had identified a gap in the Board governance process when it came to the General Manager‘s compensation and performance evaluation.  As a result, we had implemented a methodology to help better the actions of the Board and the District that are more rigorous and requires accountability.  This is a movement away from that accountability.

#### A. Approval of Funding for Light Rail Storage Tracks

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors approve funding for the construction of light rail storage tracks as part of the I-225 Rail Line project.  The storage tracks are estimated to cost $12 million which will be funded by the overall FasTracks program.  The storage tracks are needed to add reliability to the entire light rail system.

##### a. Storage tracks

#### B. Adoption of 2015 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors adopts the attached 2015 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7.  There are 23 performance measures in total.

##### a. 2015 performance measures-proposed

#### C. Approval of contract award for Light Rail Training Simulator

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to approve a contract with OKTAL in an amount not to exceed $1,543,000 to procure and install a Light Rail training simulator at the Elati Light Rail Facility.

##### a. Training Simulator - Ops Committee 4 2014

## IV. DUS Event Preparation

General Manager Washington invited Sherry Ellebracht and Adrian Mabry, event coordinator, to the meeting to help brief on the DUS event preparation.

DUS gala event, May 8, 2014—General Manager Washington emphasized this is a social event and not a RTD sponsored event.  We are expecting around 1000 people to this event.  The setup will be inside and outside of the bus way.  There will not be any speeches but a video will be played that loops around the theme “Past, Present and Future.”
- Logistics—We will have high end porta potties and will have toilet bowl lids and covers for the bathrooms.  The temperature within that underground space is about 55 degrees but they anticipate with the heat from the caterers and the volume of people, the overall temperature will be comfortable.

- We are receiving comments from former Board members who are concerned about the cost to attend this gala.  One of the things we had settled on was to use the NTP date of November, 2010 for the plaque to recognize current and former Directors.  This is also the date we will use to be consistent across the Board.  Everyone including current Board members have to purchase a table or seat.  Because this is a sponsored event and alcohol will be served, it is important that we all communicate that this event is hosted by an outside group “Ride-On” and everyone is expected to pay.  Paula Perdue is maintaining a list of the Directors who have called in but there is no assurance that tickets will be available.  Adrian Mabry indicated that approximately 750 seats have been purchased by sponsors and approximately 89 additional seats have been purchased from the invitation that went out to the general public.

- Other Concerns:  Adrian indicated the dress will be business attire since this is following the business workday and they wanted people to be comfortable.  They will be sending out a packet with more information around this and logistics.  The RTD parking lot should be available for Board members to park for the event.  Also each packet will have two free ride coupons for invitees who choose to take our bus or light rail service.

P3 Roundtable Discussion—the doors will open around 8:00 a.m.  They are anticipating around 300 people.  Chair Sisk will provide the welcome. The breakdown of the panels:
- Public Partnership—Honorable Frederico Pena will introduce the first panel.  They will spend 45-50 minutes with this discussion.  Mike Schneider, Chair of the APTA P3 committee, will serve as moderator.  Panelists include GM Washington, Don Hunt, CDOT, Terese McMillan, FTA, and possible Claire Dowdy with the National Infrastructure Committee (TBD).

- Private sector—Bill Mosher will introduce this as part of the transition.  They will have a moderator and the panelists include the companies of Fluor, Kiewit, Plenary Roads and Goldman Sachs.

- Ladders of opportunity—this is a transition more to workforce challenges and a discussion group with WIN participants.  Secretary Foxx has expressed an interest in this issue and will engage in a dialogue with four (4) WIN participants on the DUS project.  Director Rivera-Malpiede, Chair of the Civil Rights Committee, will make this introduction.  Honorable Mayor Michael Hancock will conclude this session.

Comments from Board members:

- Director Tobiassen emphasized that P3 discussion has a statewide impact and it is important that invitations/outreach be extended on a statewide basis.  He noted this was an important discussion at the E-470 Board meeting this morning.  He also asked Director Folska to comment on this as the Chair of the Government Relations Committee.  Director Folska stated she could not comment since she has not been privileged to any of these discussions.  General Manager Washington stated that this is not a government relations event but an educational event.  Director Folska responded that it is difficult to uncouple the political impact (i.e. state and government relations) from its educational component especially when other people who are involved include Patton Boggs and Sherry Ellebracht of Government Relations.  Invitations should be extended on a statewide basis.  Sherry Ellebracht indicated they had not sent out on a statewide basis but had sent to the state legislators, city and county municipalities, CASTA distribution list and others.  She asked Director Tobiassen to provide contact information for the E-470 committee.  Director James suggested we could contact an organization like the Colorado Municipal League (CML) who would have more of a cross-city contact list.  Director Folska indicated we should work closely with CRL for a list of all the state representatives.

- Director Tobiassen asked about video recording of the event.  Adrian responded we will have video shots and they will do a recording of the event for archival purposes.  A copy of this should be available via appropriate channels.

3.       Grand Opening Ribbon Cutting Ceremonies

General Manager Washington indicated that following the P3 discussions everyone will gather at the Wewatta Plaza for the ribbon cutting ceremonies.  There will be food trucks, festivities, etc.  There is a confirmed list of speakers for this event.  A few changes could be made if Secretary Foxx is in attendance.  The House is in session so it is possible a number of Colorado representatives will not be present.  Some of the speakers include DUSPA Chair Elbra Wedgeworth, Contractor Kiewit, and Walt Isenberg to speak on the grand opening of the hotel.  Chair Sisk will open.  They will use a professional M.C., Gloria MacNeal, from Channel 4. There will be limited reserved seating for current RTD Board, DUSPA Chair, and CDOT.

Director Anderson inquired about seating for the elderly or disabled who may be ambulatory but cannot stand for long periods of time.  General Manager Washington indicated provisions are being made for the ADA but he would need to follow up on this question.  Director Folska responded that having a separate area is not the same as equal.  More work needs to be done on this issue.

Director James inquired about when the bus facility will be open to the public.  Adrian responded Friday afternoon after the ribbon cutting.  RTD will be opened for business beginning the 2-6:00 a.m. shift Sunday night into Monday morning.

Chair Sisk emphasized it is important that we make provisions to accommodate all the people during this event.

## V. Use of Smart Phones and other Devices during Board Meetings

Committee Chair Sisk began the discussion by talking on the importance of collaboration and working together.  There are many tools available to us which allows the Board members to perform their functions.  We do not need rules; we are all adults and can agree to find a way to work together in a respectful manner to each other, the staff and our constituency.  He hopes we can come up with a clear path for moving forward.

He then opened up the discussion.  Director Tobiassen indicated that he was the one who had advocated for paperless packets.  This has significantly reduced his paper load, provided access to research and is an appropriate tool to use. He did note in the City of Aurora they require that phones are silenced.  Otherwise, he feels these technology tools are helpful to the meeting and should be used. Other Directors shared their perspective.  Director James agreed with Director Tobiassen and stated we need to really focus on the problem.  It is not an issue of what device is used but rather we are giving the proper attention and courtesy to the people who are attending the meeting.  We really do not need any specific set of rules but adopt “guidelines” that encourage attention to the problem and topics at hand; Guidelines should be to treat everyone like adults.

Director Sisk stated his understanding of a general consensus that phones should be silenced and no vibrations, no voice calls during the meeting and an overall guideline for showing courtesy and respect but electronic devices will be allowed.  Director Walker offered up some suggestion based on whether there is a quasi-judicial type decision being made or not and stated he is in favor of using electronic devices during the meetings.   He offered up that there is a difference between committee and Board meetings and perhaps different guidelines should apply. Director Hoy provided the qualifier that this applies whether it is a cell phone, IPAD, notebook, etc. and it should be electronic devices, not a particular type.

Director Bagley made a statement about his concerns over the decorum and Board behavior during meetings that was read into record.

Director Folska stated it is important that the Board remember we are elected to do the work of the people.  We are ”public servants.” We need to be open and transparent to further the public trust.

Several questions were asked about the upcoming Board Effectiveness Workshop and if it will cover some of these items?  Will it be RTD specific?  Paula responded it is intended to look at best practices and how successful Boards run effective meetings.  It will cover some exercises around some of these issues and will also focus on the more common parliamentarian procedures.  It is not intended to replace common courtesy, respect and overall meeting decorum that are incumbent on each Board member to show during a meeting.

Director Sisk indicated he will work on a draft of guidelines (perhaps two paragraphs) from the Executive Committee, starting with the lead-in from Director Tobiassen.  He will invite comments from the Executive Committee before publication and from the Board.

## VI. Other Matters

Director Anderson asked for a chance to speak during other matters.  She had a prepared statement that she wanted to read and stated this was her opinion and not subject to debate. She offered an apology for her temper during the Government Relations meeting and an explanation of the undercurrent things which may have provoked such a reaction.  A copy of her statement is available in the Executive Committee minutes located in the Board office.

Director Folska accepted the apology and also apologized for anything that she may have done to create the situation.  She was unaware of the other issues mentioned and also expressed that she did not directly mention names or call anyone out when she simply asked as Chair of the Committee for a point of order.  She is looking forward to us moving ahead and focusing on the agency’s business.

Director Walker shared his feelings that it is difficult as committee chair to catch all the bouncing balls or know when scope creep has set in.  He apologized for allowing his finance meeting to wander and asked for tools from other Board members on how to identify and keep topics on track during a meeting.

Director Anderson shared one of the tools used is with timing and setting time limits for speaking which can tighten a meeting up.  This is one of the reasons why she tried to implement the “speak no more than 2 times on a topic.”

## VII. Adjourn

The meeting adjourned at 1:45 p.m.