2024-11-14
Audit Committee
BOBBY DISHELL: Good morning. The Thursday, November 14, Audit Committee will now come to order.
We are convened as of 10:03 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
At this morning's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known as
CART. Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who
would like access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish.
Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. And a link will be provided. Visit rtd-denver.com and a live stream of this
meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
today's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you
before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press
star 6.
I would now like to call the roll for committee members. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson will be joining us later. Committee Member Brendel.
JIM BRENDEL: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Committee Member Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: For the record, I also see that we have Director Buzek present, who will be joining this
committee subject to Board approval in the new year. I would like to open public comment to anyone who
would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the
current and immediately preceding agenda from July. If you wish to speak and have not already done so,
please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.

During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Do we have any hands?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Committee Chair Dishell. There is one hand raised, and that is from a Mr. Richard
Bamber.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hey, good morning, Committee. Admittedly, a rare appearance for me in this forum.
But I want to use my comment to thank Director Dishell for his chairmanship and his help and his service
over the last four years. Director Dishell was one of the first directors to engage with Greater Denver
Transit soon after we set up. And he gave us some very realistic and somewhat sobering assessment of
where the agency was, particularly financial. So we will miss Director Dishell's contributions. And
wherever life takes you next, good luck. Thank you so much.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. Appreciate it. Are there any other raised hands?
JACK KROLL: Director Dishell, at this time, I do not see any further hands raised. And in anticipation of
your next question, you all did not receive any emailed items submitted as public comment for this
meeting as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. With no other participants in the queue, we will close public
comment period at this time. There is one recommended action on the agenda for the appointment of
Director Buzek to the Independent Audit Committee, for the Independent Audit Committee to recommend
to the Executive Committee the appointment of Director Vince Buzek to the committee. Is there a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
BOBBY DISHELL: I hear Director Caitlin as the movement. Is there a second?
JOHN OLENBERGER: Second.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Mr. Olenberger is the second. I'd like to ask Jack Kroll, Executive Manager,
Board Office, and Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to present this item.
JACK KROLL: Yes, thank you, Committee Chair Dishell. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the
Board Office. I, just real quickly, wanted to remind everybody of the process that was set forth by Chair
Davidson to fill the upcoming vacancy that will be created when his term on the committee, as well as his
term on the Board, ends.
This process was designed to mirror very much the process for the initial appointments to the Audit
Committee. Prior to the Audit Committee's creation, there was a working group that included members of
staff as well as outside financial experts that reviewed interested-- reviewed résumés and letters of
interest from directors who had a desire to serve on this committee. And now, with the creation of the
committee, it was thought that it would be good, again, to return to the expertise of the outside
professionals, as well as the committee members, to consider potential appointments to this committee.
In both instances, when the committee was initially stood up in 2022 and going into 2023, as well as in
this instance, the interest level from the Board matched the number of available positions.

And so we did receive one application, if you will, from Director Buzek. And that was forwarded to the
members of the committee a couple weeks ago for your review and consideration. And moving forward,
this will mirror the process.
We want to replicate this process for all future openings on the committee, both for external and for board
members who wish to serve on the committee. That way, the Board can look to the recommendations of
folks with audit and financial expertise before making any final decisions on who to appoint to this
committee. And with that, I don't know if, Chief Financial Officer MacLeod, if you had anything else to add
on that.
DOUG MACLEOD: No, thank you. I think you covered it all. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. At this time, I'll ask those committee members who have questions or who
wish to speak to raise your virtual hands. And I will call on you in turn. For committee members or staff
calling into the meeting, if you wish to speak, please press star 9 for any discussion on this action.
Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wanted to thank Director Buzek for expressing interest in putting
his name in for consideration. I think he's quite qualified, and I just really appreciate it. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right. And I would concur with that. Any other? Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I don't know if it's appropriate for me to speak at this point in time. But I want to
thank you for considering me for this position. And I know back in 2022, when the committee charter was
finalized, I know Debra Johnson and I had a lot of discussion, along with members of the then-committee- I know Director Catlin and I think Director Dishell as well were very much involved in really reinventing
this committee. Because in the not-too-distant past, it was problematic, to say the least.
So this committee has done incredible work since then. And I look forward to being a part of that moving
forward. Thanks.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. All right, are there any "no" votes on this action? OK, with four "aye" votes,
zero "no" votes, and zero abstentions, that motion passes.
Now, we'll move on to the discussion items. There are two listed on the agenda, with the first for the
internal audit update. I would like to ask Matt Marino, Chief Audit Executive, RubinBrown, and Doug
MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to present this item.
MATT MARINO: OK, I'm going to share my screen and go from there, I'm hoping. Is everybody seeing my
Internal Audit Update, I'm hoping? Yes, OK, perfect.
So this format is somewhat similar to what we've done in the past. I'm here to report on the results of our
internal audits for the year. It's hard to believe that we're nearing the conclusion of our audit plan.
We set that audit plan out a while back. And we're just in the final phases of wrapping up several of the
audits. So I'll give you an update on all of them.
So current accomplishments-- a little bit later in this presentation, we're going to talk about the safety
review as well as the Denver Transit Partners Review, where we have mostly completed the IT

Vulnerability Assessment using the NIST 2.0 framework. We're just working through some management
action plans with management to make sure that's all squared away. And we'll get that issued here in Q4.
The Financial Performance Metrics Review is also in process of field work. RTD Operations and Service
Development is in field work as well. And then the issue tracking is an ongoing thing that we always do.
Really, no challenges that I need to bring to your attention.
If we go over to the right there, really, for the most part, we stayed on track. And that's a good thing
because we want to make sure we're issuing reports at a good clip to make sure we're providing feedback
to the different parts of the organization, and making sure that we're pushing towards continuous
improvement and finding ways to enhance the experience not only for the riders, but the employees and
all users of the organization.
We're also working on updating our internal audit charter. So the IIA standards have been updated. And
so we're comparing our current standards and our current charter to what's recommended. And we'll be
bringing some recommended updates and enhancements to the committee for final ratification, probably
Q1 of '25 to make sure that we're all squared away on that.
And then we're also going to-- it's time to refresh our audit plan for 2025. We do have several audits that
did slip into 2025, either due to scheduling needs and/or just capacity constraints. And so we will wrap
those up in early 2025. And then we'll propose some new audits as well.
And then as part of that new audit plan, we are going to do a re-risk assessment, just like we do every
year or every audit plan. We'll reach out to, obviously, the Audit Committee members and as well as
some selected directors and key management to make sure that we take a look at not only what have we
learned from the audits we've conducted, but what might be coming up that all of us might be concerned
about that we need to address as part of the audit plan. So that's where that's at.
So if we look at the overall audit plan, the green has been complete. The blue is in process. And then the
yellow is either in planning, and then the red/pink is reoccurring stuff.
So a lot of green on this dashboard at this point, which is always a good place to be at the end of the-near the end of the year. Really, the items that were pushed into early 2025 mostly were shifted due to
either unexpected delays or reprioritization of staff's time for other things that were already going on. And
we didn't want to double- and triple-load an internal audit on top of a project they might already be
working through.
So we're going to be looking at the Federal, State, and Local Regulations Oversight Review. We're going
to be doing the-- well, you'll hear about the RTD Operations Service Development hopefully in Q1 of
2025. Human Resources and Recruiting and Hiring Process Review, that will also be issued in Q1 of
2025.
We're going to talk about Denver Transit here shortly. The Enterprise Risk Refresh, we're going to do that
in Q1 of 2025, and then internal audit planning. Any questions thus far on the first part? I'll talk about the
audit results in the two audits here shortly.
I'm not seeing any hands, so I will proceed. So before I get to the new audits, we always like to refresh
and look at the issue tracking. So we had several different management action plans that had times that
were-- had elapsed. And so it was time to follow up for them.

So we had the Contract & Procurement Observation 3. So that originally had a target date of October 1 of
2024. And that's now been pushed out to March 31, 2025.
We also had several IT General Control observations there. And so that's an area that always takes a lot
of time and effort to make sure that everything's buttoned up. So those were also issues. 1 and 2 were
also slated to be completed by October 1, 2024, but just a slight push out to January 31, 2025.
And then issue 3 is complete. It was completed 11/4. So that's always good to get that closed out. And
then the last item, Oracle User Access Deprovisioning is slated to be completed in the end of January as
well.
So really, most of our issues from prior year have either been closed out, or there's a revised timeline in
which it should be followed up with. And so we'll continue following up with those things. And that will help
guide whether we need to follow up via additional audit or so on via our risk assessment process, what
we should do for the 2025 audit.
So behind here is just an executive summary of the internal audit reports that were issued. So the full
report is later in the packet. But I'm going to go over it at a high level to make sure that we can have some
time to discuss the items that are most relevant and most important to you all.
So the first thing we looked at, this is the Safety Review. So we had a Safety Review. So we were making
sure that the organization had established policies and procedures, that the policies and procedures
tracked with all the different plans that we have to put out there, whether it's the PTASP or the SSPP
plan.
And so we did have several different recommendations that we did issue with regard to the policies and
procedures and all of that. So we had-- we did issue a Needs Improvement rating overall. And then we
had 11 recommendations that we all categorized as Moderate.
So this audit was conducted from basically January through April of 2024. And it just took some time to
get it closed out and make sure that we hammered out the management action plans with management
to have realistic timelines and realistic solutions based on the observations there. We'll dive through that
in more detail if you would like. But just high-level, 11 Moderate recommendations, nothing that rose to
the High level.
The next one has to do with Denver Transit Partners, who is the concessionaire for our heavy rail. And so
that was also on the audit plan. And so we conducted that.
So we reviewed the Concessionaire Agreement with relation to operation. We did not scope in the
design-build elements of the project that was already completed at this point and were really operational.
So this review took a look at the different operational elements of the Concessionaire Agreement and
made sure that we report on anything that we thought of note.
And so this one also received a Needs Improvement rating. So we noted 9 items that were rated as
Moderate and then 1 Low/Process Improvement. So this was just conducted basically Q3 of 2024. And
we can go through any detail things in that right after this.
So we're going to flip it around because I do know some of the management that might speak to the
different plans might have to drop off at different times. So I know I talked about safety first. And now

we're flipping back to Denver Transit Partners. But I think that because of due to timing, we're going to do
that one first.
So the first one has to do with the safety requirements. So basically, what we are saying is that we noted
that there was different safety things that weren't happening with regard to the agreement. So the first
one, require the Concessionaire to establish a Fire and Safety Committee.
Request the Concessionaire to maintain evidence of the FSC meetings. And request the Concessionaire
update the hazard identification and analysis resolution process. So management has provided their
action plan there. Yes, Member Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. Yeah, I was just wondering if before we get into these observations, if
someone either internal audit or someone from the RTD could provide a high-level overview of what the
contract-- because I think this is a contract audit of Denver Transit Partners. At a high level, what is it? I
mean, I have it in my head that they operate the A line. I don't know if they're in charge of maintenance for
the vehicles, if it's just safety, if they get the revenues, if-- could someone provide a couple of minutes of
that?
And then I was also wondering, going forward-- this might be another topic. But would you guys be able
to put something like that, like a high-level summary of the topic in the audit report as a background for
the reader?
MATT MARINO: Sure. I think there's a very, very high level. But it is a 1,500-page document. So I will
probably-- I think I saw Mike on there. I'll maybe ask Mike if he wanted to start off. And then I can fill in as
well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Matt, I think it would be advisable to have Mike Millage give a high-level
overview and explain basically about the various lines in the construction and how it came to be. And if
you can do that, Mike-- I know you have time constraints-- but do that succinctly, where everybody can
garner an understanding that it's actually more than the A line, and how we do the lease-back with the
vehicles and things of the like. Thank you.
MIKE MILLAGE: Yeah, thank you, General Manager Johnson, Director Osenberg. So the Denver Transit
Partners contract, which is the Concession & Lease Agreement that we have with Denver Transit
Partners, as part of that contract, they had actually hired different contractors, one that performs the
design-build, which isn't part of this audit, and also Denver Transit Operators, who operate and maintain
the A line, the B line, and the G Line, as well as DUS.
When I talk about operation and maintenance, it not only is maintaining the system but performing safety
inspections themselves. They also do maintenance on the rail vehicles, the rolling stock vehicles. There's
66 pairs or, excuse me, 33 married pairs on the system, which are rotated in and out between the A line,
the B line, the G line, as well as the N line. So they maintain all the vehicles.
The entire system is RTD's assets, in which we lease out to them so that they can perform their services,
their operation and maintenance services. They also dispatch in and out of DUS as well as dispatch the
A, B, and G line. That's high level. If there's something that you're thinking a little bit more that you would
like to know, I'm happy to answer any questions.

DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, just a point of clarification, Mike. You made reference about the
maintenance and the cars being intermixed with the A, B, G, and N lines. But I do want to clarify that RTD
directly operates the N line.
MIKE MILLAGE: Correct.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
JOHN OLENBERGER: So just to-- also, with the fair-- so is it a contract, like a fixed-fee contract that they
get? Or do they get the fares as resulting from this? And it also sounds like the scope is basically the
heavier commuter rail minus the G line, was it?
MIKE MILLAGE: It's all the lines A, B, and G line. The N line is actually operated by RTD itself. They don't
get the fares.
It is a fixed fee, where it gets escalated each year based off of escalation costs that are associated with it.
So as part of the contract, when we got in the contract in 2010-- and the contract expires-- I'm not sure if
you're aware of this. The contract actually expires in 2044.
And so as part of the contract, we identified cost each year in 2010 dollars. So each year, we go through
this escalation process to develop what that cost would be for that year. So in 2010 dollars, we have to
figure out-- like this past year, we had to figure out what 2024 dollars would be. And that would be part of
their service payment.
So the service payment, to get that service payment, they have to meet certain obligations and
requirements. They have to hit certain on-time performance. They have to meet certain rolling stock
availability. What I mean by "rolling stock availability" is if they have a canceled trip, that gets deducted
from their service payment that month. And the on-time performance, similar to that, where if they're past
five minutes at a different time stop point, then they'll get deducted service payment for that as well.
JOHN OLENBERGER: And are they in charge of station maintenance, too, along those lines? Are they
basically in charge of everything along the line in accordance with their contract?
MIKE MILLAGE: Yeah, for A, B, and G, they are, as well as DUS. There are some station Park-n-Rides
where they are not responsible for. As an example, Central Park being one of those. Central Park Park-nRide is actually maintained by RTD Facilities.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK, thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right, anything further from anyone?
MATT MARINO: Not seeing any hands going up, so I guess I'll proceed. Great. Thank you, Director
Olenberger. I often take for granted that not everybody has gotten to read the agreement in detail and
understand some of the multiple elements of it. So I appreciate the need for context on that.
So if we go back to Observation 1, this one really has to do with the overall safety requirements when
operating in compliance with the agreement. So as I mentioned, there was meetings that weren't being
documented. They needed to establish a Fire and Life Safety Committee. And they needed to update the
Hazard Identification Analysis and Resolution Process.

Management has provided their action plans. They're slated to have this all completed by March 31,
2025. Really, this is a matter of working with the operator to make sure all of the relevant things that might
be happening on their end are being documented and also being passed over to us as an organization to
review and monitor.
Observation 2, Passenger Code of Conduct Requirement. So we noted that the-- they do have a
Passenger Code of Conduct. But it did not seem to be the same as what RTD's was. And so the
recommendation was to require the Concessionaire to develop a Passenger Code of Conduct that agree
with the agreement, and also make sure that it ensures the safety of passengers.
So management action plan, we're going to review and ensure the Concessionaire adopts the standards
outlined in our Code of Conduct and make sure that that is congruent with what we have as an
organization. And then we'll follow up on that. That's planned to be completed by March 31 of 2025 as
well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Quick question on that. I can understand why it can take a couple months to actually
post all of them. But is there a reason it would take a couple months to make sure that they have adopted
the same policy that we have? I guess I'll-- I'm the Chair, so, yeah, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so I wanted to provide some context because, quite naturally, there's a myriad
of different factors. I know that Mike Millage is short staffed. And he has been leaning in, doing a myriad
of different activities as relates to elements pertaining to safety and things of the like.
And there is a process by which there's committees. So I just wanted to manage the committee's
expectation. While this is critically important to all of us, we are trying to do a multitude of things with lessthan-adequate people power in some elements.
So I just wanted to provide that context. But I will yield the floor to Mr. Millage to provide greater insight
into the timeline that's been identified for the management response. Thank you.
MIKE MILLAGE: Yeah, thank you, Director Dishell. So as far as the timeline, a lot of times, there are
contractual requirements to update different documents. I think in a case like this, it's a matter of them just
getting it incorporated into their Customer Service Plan.
And by contract, they do have 30 days to go through the process. We have review process as well. So it
does take a little bit of time from that standpoint, from a contractual standpoint.
And I do want to make sure that that is clear. There are certain timelines that each party has to review
and provide comments back and forth to each other. And in some cases, it will be almost immediate,
where each entity will have their 30 days. In some cases, it could be a back-and-forth.
And so I think from this standpoint, this one, I think it's pretty straightforward. And I think we can achieve
that. Hopefully, that answers your question.
BOBBY DISHELL: It does, yes. And one other question, and this is more on the Management Action
Plan, which is, is there a way to make sure that this, I guess it would be a clause in a contract gets carried
forward so that for any of our purchase transit, if we know that this is an issue here, ideally, we can
correct it going forward for any of our contracted services that they're obligated to use our Code of
Conduct, as opposed to not having it and then going through this again?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Dishell, I'll take that question because that-- Mike has auspices over the
commuter rail.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, rail.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So I will, in turn, confer with General Counsel Snyder in Contracting and
Procurement, because I can't speak to what we have collectively with the TNC's terms and conditions.
But generally speaking, when we do engage with a third party and they assume responsibility for service
delivery, they are representing the agency. And typically, they should be utilizing our Code of Conduct as
we go forward.
But I would have to double back to ensure that we have something relative to that in contractual
documents. Ms. Snyder, is there anything you would like to add to my statement?
MELANIE SNYDER: No, not at this time.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All right, thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Debra.
MATT MARINO: Observation 3 has to do with the Operation Document Requirement. So it was a
Moderate risk rating. So there were several different things. First, proof of review of the Operating Rules
and Procedures book by RTD, or FRA, PUC, and other relevant authorities for a time was not available.
Evidence of review and approval of the Management and Administration Plan by RTD was not
documented. And the Human Resource Plan was last reviewed by the Concessionaire on August 26,
2015.
Evidence and review of the approval of the Concessionaire management was not documented prior to
submittal to RTD. So recommendation, ensure review and approval of the RTD and authorized regulators
of the documents required for operation and maintenance of, basically, the lines. And update the Human
Resources Plan to ensure the policies and procedures detailed in the Human Resources Plan are
relevant and compliant with the requirements of applicable regulations. So management's is going to work
with the Concessionaire and DTO to ensure the upcoming submittals are documented prior to them
sending it over to us for review. That's going to occur by September 30, 2025.
Observation 4 has to do with Service Task Order Maintenance Requirements. So we did look at 25 task
orders that were randomly selected. And 17 task orders were not investigated and resolved within the
prescribed timeline. And there was no evidence that the task order analysis was conducted on a monthly
basis to identify system-wide or repeated task order events.
So, really, the recommendation is that we request that the Concessionaire investigate and resolve the
task orders within the timeline outlined in the agreement and perform a task order process to ensure that
requirements are outlined in the attachment. And then request the Concessionaire to complete
preventative maintenance inspections by the due dates to ensure the rail transit system structures and
other assets are operating safely.
RTD will also continue to review the STOP remedy times. And we'll be sending the letters to the
Concessionaire, working through that process. This is a lot here, so that's why it's pushed out a little bit as
far as the when it'll all be implemented. Mike, did you want to provide any context on this one?

MIKE MILLAGE: Sure, thanks, Matt. Yeah, as far as the findings that they had, there are some rolling
stock maintenance, preventative maintenance that did extend beyond the time frame that was identified,
not by much. But the one thing that we're going to do is, on a monthly basis, continue to review the
monthly reports and identify the trends that we're seeing and meet with the Denver Transit Operators to
ensure that they course-correct those items, as well as do whatever sort of investigation they need to on
their end to ensure that they can course-correct on their side as well.
And to Matt's point, it's a big item, which is why it did get extended out. There's a number of PMs that are
required each year, not only on rolling stock but the infrastructure. So there's a lot of things that do have
certain PM dates or requirements, either by the manufacturer or by the regulatory FRA, Federal Railroad
Administration. So those are things that are ongoing that we track. Thanks, Matt.
MATT MARINO: Member Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: I'm just wondering, how big of a deal is some of this stuff? Like if the FRA does an
audit of this and sees that we are half a week past the PM due date on stuff, are we going to be subject to
huge fines? Some of it, like when I look at the past due on the PMs and a week past due, I'm wondering,
is that a annual PM, and we're a week past due? In which case I would think, to me at least, that doesn't
seem like a big deal.
Technically, it's a contract violation. But if we're a week past due on an annual PM, that's one thing. If
we're a week past due on a weekly PM or something like that, that would seem more egregious to me.
And then these other, the non-PM task orders that were there, I was also wondering how egregious those
were in terms of graffitti, for example. Someone reports it. And they have, say, 48 hours to address it. Did
they address it very shortly thereafter? Or are these things that are going on for extended periods of time,
where an average rider would say, this is completely unacceptable type of thing?
MIKE MILLAGE: Yeah, thank you for that question. So going back to some of the PMs on the rolling
stock, if it does extend beyond that due date, the FRA does do audits. What they'll probably do if they see
a trend, a number of rolling stock that goes beyond the PMs, what they'll do is provide an inspection
report.
And then they'll probably identify it as a defect. And then they'll come back, and if they start continuing to
see that defect or it hasn't been corrected, then they could actually come back with the violation to DTO to
make sure that that is corrected. Some of the other items, like the example of the graffiti, generally
speaking, it's not a huge deal. They're pretty responsive on some of those, but maybe not hit the timeline
that's set forth in the CA.
The graffiti that is actually critical to us is any offensive graffiti. Those are ones that we will not tolerate
and accept that they will allow to remain on site. Those are ones that we will immediately contact them
and continue to contact them to get those cleaned because those are just not acceptable. As an agency,
we do not want to see that graffiti around.
But there-- you'll get some graffiti. It could be like small little text or etching. They're-- DTO is pretty
responsive to get some of those. In some cases, it requires special cleaning. Or sometimes you'll have
etching in some of the glass, which takes a little extra effort.
If it does take a little extra effort, there is a program out there. It's called Remedial Action Plan. So if they
can't hit a-- I want to say it's the fourth 12-hour period. So 48 hours, if they can't hit that, then what they'll

do is they'll submit this Remedial Action Plan to Oversight to review and accept and approve so that they
plan out what their attack is or what they're planning on doing, like if they need to order a part or whatever
be the case. So there are mechanisms within the CA that allow them to identify and develop a Remedial
Action Plan.
JOHN OLENBERGER: And the audit takes that into consideration. So the exceptions noted here, they did
not have an extension to that time frame.
MIKE MILLAGE: Correct.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you.
MATT MARINO: Observation 5 has to do with the Operation of Maintenance Subcontract Agreement
Requirement. So let's see. Recommendation, we need to get copies of all the existing Subcontractor
Agreements entered in by our Concessionaire to ensure the agreements with Material, Operation and
Maintenance are in-- the key terms are correct and, really, just comply with what we need.
So management's action plan is the request the Concessionaire and DTO to communicate via the
mechanism, all the different agreements that are out there. Provide copies of them so that we can review
them and make sure that there's nothing that causes pause on our part. So this is slated to be completed
by June 30 of 2025.
Audit and Records Requirement. As part of the agreement, there is a Audit and Records Requirement. So
the recommendation is that we request the Concessionaire to implement corrective action plans to
remedy noted deficiencies to ensure that the deficiencies do not occur in the future. And develop a
systematic and structure to the Audit Inspection Plan to ensure the compliance with the contractually
required Obligations Applicable Regulations. This is slated to be completed by June 30 of 2025 as well.
Payment of Rent Requirement. This was a Low risk rating. So we did note that the rent was not quite paid
on time. It's not necessarily material, but technically is a contract provision that was not complied with. So
that's why it's a Low rating. Target date of December 31, 2024.
Training Requirement. This had a risk rating of Moderate. So, really, this has to do with the training of the
people that are operating under the Concessionaire.
And so we did a sample, and we looked at the different records with regard to 12 employees. And we
noted four employees had not completed the required training course. Evidence of the training required
attendance records for the employees was not provided. Evidence of instructor sign-off was not provided
for eight of the selected employees. And evidence of the completion of the refresher course was not
provided for five of the 12 sampled.
Recommendation, review and reprove the Concessionaire's Training and Competency Plan to ensure
that the Concessionaire's operating in compliance with that. And request the Concessionaire to ensure
employees complete the required training and provide-- and also retain that evidential support with regard
to the training attendance records. And this is, really, as outlined in the agreement. So management
action-- we're going to look at the Concessionaire's records and make sure that we follow up on that.
That's slated to be completed by September 30 of 2025.
Accident and Incident Reporting. This is Moderate as well. So we reviewed 14 accidents/incidents. And
there's a certain time period in which that has to be reported to us.

And so of that, three of the incidents were not reported timely to us. Yes, Member-- Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead and finish. I have a comment at the end, if that's OK.
MATT MARINO: OK, perfect. Yeah. Two of the 14 incidents caused delays that were greater than 10
minutes. And one of these incidents caused service disruption that required the use of the bus bridge.
We also noted that the timelines for reporting the accidents/incidents were not aligned with regard to
several of them. In addition, one incident involved damage of approximately just a little bit short of
$12,000 to rail equipment. And then noted that the Passenger Emergency Preparedness Plan dated
March 11, 2022, has not been reviewed and updated once every 24 months, as required.
So recommendation, require that the Concessionaire comply with the reporting timelines that are outlined.
Make sure that they're making us aware of all the different things. And then also with regard to the
Emergency Preparedness Plan, make sure that they update that and provide that to us. Slated to be
completed March 31, 2025. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. The Transportation Legislative Review Committee has on their agenda a
reporting for rail incidents. And I just-- and maybe Ms. Johnson can help me with this. But we may be
subject to some other state legislation that could alter this plan a little bit. And I didn't know if we were
prepared on a proactive basis to deal with this.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Mr. Chair, if I may?
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. Director Catlin, what you're referencing relative to the General
Assembly's Transportation Legislative Review Committee has to do with the State Safety Oversight
Agency. That's delineated from the Federal Transit Administration. That has auspices over light rail
transit.
It doesn't negate what you're saying because this is-- commuter rail is overseen by the Federal Railroad
Administration. But I just wanted to qualify that. But, yes, quite naturally, as we look at the regulatory
entities to whom we have to ensure adherence with basic code of federal regulations and the like, we do
go back and do reviews of those.
Hence, when we talk about the next audit relative to safety, there are certain elements under the Public
Transportation Safety Agency Plan and the Safety Management Systems and things of the like, where we
make modifications, because we review those rules and ensure that we're working with whatever
appropriate entity. If it's Purchased Transportation, for instance, with FRA, we would have to submit
something to FRA, because we are the railroad of record, but do that in conjunction with the
Concessionaire, which would be the Denver Transit Partners. Did that address your question?
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might-- and I appreciate that nuance. And I get that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: My concern is that not all of our legislators get that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Got it.

PEGGY CATLIN: And there might be some imposition that had not been planned, because I don't think
they see the color of those different regulatory agencies. They just see their role as legislators and
wanting answers to some of the safety things. So I'm just giving you a heads up that we may have to do
some proactive maybe education, I don't know, or whatever on this particular topic.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. I appreciate that.
PEGGY CATLIN: So thank you for opining about that. But-DEBRA JOHNSON: No, no, it's a good point. And I thank you for broaching it. And I'll leave it there, and
we can talk.
PEGGY CATLIN: The other thing I wanted to point out-- and we're already on Observation 9. And the
cause-- and you alluded to this earlier, Ms. Johnson, is lack of adequate RTD oversight staffing to monitor
this agreement. And I noticed that Mr. Millage has quite a lot on his plate this next year to correct that. But
I just don't know where we are with regard to providing him the resources and staffing that he needs.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So that is in play. Mr. Jensen isn't here with us today because he's on some muchdeserved PTO. But there is a critical position that is currently being recruited for, which is a Deputy
Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations that would have reporting responsibilities, or I should say
oversight.
So that is in play. I can't speak specifically to where they are in the process. But I do know that
applications have been received.
And to the point that Charlene Polege, our Chief People Officer, broached last night in reference to our
recruitment efforts, things are moving and underway. So we should be in a different place since in first
quarter. And that's the reason why I was alluding to, Director Dishell, relative to the timelines for these
being in the first-- the end of the first quarter of 2025, because that would put us in a better position
whereby the team could manage these critical elements.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I just noticed Mr. Millage's name on all of these and was concerned
[LAUGHS] that he was trying to juggle a lot. So that was all. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: Observation 10 has to do with substance abuse. So we were looking at randomly
selected employees that were operating under the agreement. And two of the employees, we weren't
provided with documentation with regard to that.
So require the Concessionaire to maintain the drug and alcohol testing results in compliance with the
regulatory and contractual agreements. We're going to follow up on that. And that should be completed by
end of the calendar year 2025.
I do want to point out, as has been mentioned earlier, Mr. Millage, in spite of his very busy schedule, was
very responsive and very collaborative. And so we do appreciate him helping us get this audit started and
wrapped up in relatively short order, in spite of the numerous elements that he's responsible for
monitoring, as well as the numerous action plans that he had to put together and plan out for himself and
his group.
Any-- oh, we'll go back. Yes. Director Dishell, I'll turn it back to you.

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I have Mr. Brendel first on my screen. But leave it to the two of you.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Go for it.
JIM BRENDEL: Thank you. Just a question on the action plans. Most of them are to-- and by necessity, I
think, to request the Concessionaire to comply. And I just wondered what the plan was to follow up to
make sure that they were in compliance, and whether there were any provisions for recourse under the
contract if-- for non-compliance. Thank you.
MIKE MILLAGE: Director Dishell, I can respond to that, if you'd like.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, please.
MIKE MILLAGE: OK. So part of the contract, the Concession Lease Agreement, we do have the ability to
perform inspection and audit. As part of the inspection audits, some of these will be funneled through that.
And at the conclusion of the audits, we can develop what's called Corrective Action Reports, which
requires them to be compliant with those corrective actions.
So if it's a regulatory thing, they have to comply with it. If it's a Concession Agreement Requirement, they
have to be compliant with it. They have to provide a Remedial Action Plan associated with it, how they're
going to get compliant with that, either the CA or the regulatory requirement. So those are some of our
mechanisms to ensure that they are compliant.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right, does that answer the question?
JIM BRENDEL: Yes, thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Olenberger, you disappeared. You're back.
JOHN OLENBERGER: [LAUGHS] I'm back. So I just wanted to go back to Observation number 7 real
quick. I feel like the risk that we have on that is, perhaps, incorrect.
I mean, technically it is. This is the payment of rent, $10. I mean, to me, that's not a risk to the RTD is
missing out on $10. So this might actually be a question for Melanie in terms of what's the real risk to this,
if they don't pay the $10 rent?
And it sounds like they're leasing the rolling stock back from us as well. So it sounds like in terms of
financial transactions, the $10 is really nothing. So I was wondering why it's even in here, unless perhaps
there's a different risk, and maybe the report to reflect that risk. Like if they don't pay the $10, we don't
have a legal agreement or something along those lines. Because to me, $10 is just not an issue.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you for the question. I would agree. I think the
$10 is not going to rise to the level of a material amount in this situation.
RTD, of course, is never going to waive its ability to collect that rent. I don't actually have the background
on why this finding was included. So perhaps Mr. Marino could address that. But of course, we want to
make sure that we are ensuring that we're protecting RTD's ability to recover and protect all of its rights
under the contract.

MATT MARINO: And I would want to go back and double-check the provisions of that part of the contract
to make sure there's nothing that would-- I'm sure there was a reason. But I can't speak to that right now.
I will get back to you.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. It just seems like something that we would have just looked at in the
contract and said, $10, we're not even going to bother with this one. What's the next provision? And go
from there. Unless there was something bigger behind it that's just not coming out in this report. Thank
you.
MATT MARINO: I will report back to you.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right.
MATT MARINO: OK, Director Dishell, am I good to proceed to the Safety Review?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, please.
MATT MARINO: And I will try and go a little faster because I am going to try and keep us on time,
because I know we have one more agenda item after this. But I will not skip over it and make sure we
provide it due care as well. So I already went over the high-level results.
So the first observation has to do with our policies and procedures. The short and quick of this is we have
a ton of policies and procedures. We have a ton of entities that we need to provide and develop policies
and procedures for.
The one thing with regard to this is it's not necessarily clear what is the overarching policy that might
reference some of those subpolicies. And so, really, this one has to do with really developing a
overarching Safety and Procedure-- Safety Policy and Procedures Manual that would encompass all of
the different frameworks and all of the different requirements.
Management Action Plan is very lengthy there. As you can see, different target dates with regard to the
different elements of it, running all the way through 2025. So won't go through that in too much detail. But
it is not a small lift because there's just a small list of multiple-letter agencies that we have to comply with
different rules and procedures for.
Observation 2 has to do with Fixed-Route Transit and Paratransit Contractor Safety Plans. So we noted
that the contractors did not-- let's see. Currently, there was no review of these safety plans.
So they have their own safety plans, but we're not regularly reviewing those safety plans. So the
recommendation is that we review those safety plans at appropriate intervals, management monitors
contractual performance. And so basically, this should be completed by March 31, 2025. But they're also
going to make sure that they review that safety plan as part of that regular contract review.
Observation 3 has to do with the PTASP Risk Management process. So, really, here we're
recommendation to update the PTASP and the RM framework for changes and procedures affecting
safety in a timely manner to ensure consistency, effectiveness, and compliance with the various statutory
requirements that we get to comply with. Really, this has got different target dates as well, just due to the
multiple elements that have to happen in order to get it all done, so all the way through 2025 as well.

PTASP Risk Management process-- so, really, we're looking to improve the overall risk management
process in this, establish a time frame for safety risk resolution, required documentation of pertinent
information regarding the evaluation and analysis of identified safety risks, and ensure that the Corrective
Action Plans are developed, and document evidence of management review. So management has
provided their action plan with regard to that. This will be completed-- and if you're noticing a little bit of a
theme, a lot of this interplays the different recommendations are going to require different elements of the
safety policies and procedures to get updated. And so much like the other target dates, these are very
consistent with the other observations.
Observation 5 has to do with safety data collection and analysis. And so, really, we're looking for the
establishment of a mechanism for safety data collection, documentation, and analysis from all of the
various internal sources. We're collecting a lot of data, but really, we want to have a comprehensive plan
whereby all that data is aggregated and evaluated. And so management has provided their action plan.
And the target dates are very consistent with the other recommendations.
The PTASP Personal Protective Equipment. So we have different policies regarding the use of personal
protective equipment at the organization. We are looking for a-- we're recommending that a single PPE
policy be developed and all of those other policies be evaluated against that to make sure that we're,
number one, following the rules, but also, two, following best-practice recommendations that would be
consistent throughout the organization. So this would be slated to be completed by June 30, 2025. And
management has provided their action plan there.
SSPP Process and Procedures. So the recommendation we're looking for, the processes and procedures
should be aligned with the FRA regulation requirements for accident and incident reporting and
investigation and risk management. We need to update the SSPP in a timely manner and to ensure that
the hazards that impact our commuter rail is processed consistently and efficiently to eliminate the safety
risks with regard to that element.
This work can be completed by end of this calendar year. Management has provided their action plan
there. And they're well on their way of working through this.
SSPP Procedures. Recommendation, establish processes and procedures to address all the
requirements and standards set out in the SSPP. And update the SSPP with the appropriate processes
and procedures to ensure compliance with the different statutory regulations.
Management has affirmed that they've noted the administrative issues have been identified. And they're
working through that. That'll be completed by the end of this calendar year.
Observation 9 has to do with accident notification reporting and investigation process. So we're-recommendation, require that the Safety and Environmental Compliance Division Investigation Team
follow up-- they need to follow the accident and investigation recording procedures to make sure that
we're following the FTA and FRA regulations and making sure we're doing all those. Reporting notification
and follow up with regard to the different timelines that are outlined there.
So you'll see, there's different target dates out there for the different sort of post-- different reporting
needs to happen, whether it be post-event, follow up, all that sort of stuff. And there's different reporting
requirements for different modes of transportation, whether it be commuter rail, motor bus, and so on.
And so all of these different target dates take that into consideration.

Observation 10 has to do with facility structures and equipment inspections. So we're recommending that
the inspections and testing of facilities and equipment by the various people occur and that the
documentation be maintained for those inspections occurring. So management team affirmed that they
agree with the recommendation. And that will be completed by December 31, 2024, as well.
And then Observation 11 has to do with Corrective Action Plan process. So we as an organization are
responsible for developing Corrective Action Plans for recommendations we get from other regulators or
other follow-up. And so the, really, recommendation here is that we have a process to ensure the
appropriate Corrective Action Plans are followed up on and implemented and closed out.
And so that is going to be completed by December 31, 2024. And that's the recommendations with regard
to this one. Any one you want me to go back to?
And members of management, is there anything that you-- with regard to this? I also want to thank this
team. They had many different things to look through. And I really appreciate them working through this
audit with us. It took a lot of work back and forth to make sure that we covered all the different elements,
and making sure that we're coming up with timetables that are realistic based on staff constraints as well
as the complexity of the rules that we have to follow.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DEBRA JOHNSON: The one thing that I did want to note, the observation period was from January 2024
through April 2024. And just for everybody's edification, recognizing the Public Transportation Agency
Safety Plan is updated annually. And there is a process in which we have a joint Labor Management
Safety Committee and things of the like. As we move forward, a lot of these elements that were qualified
are embedded in different plans and so forth.
And the Board of Directors of RTD just approved the PTASP because there were new rules that were
initiated under the Code of Federal Regulations. So I wanted just to provide additional context as we
move forward, that we're constantly looking at these different elements. And I would yield the floor to Sky
Mott to ensure that what I'm stating is accurate relative to where we are.
SKY MOTT: Yeah, thank you. So what Debra just mentioned was that we did go through the process of
updating the Agency Safety Plan. It is an intensive process, one that involves us looking at all modes that
are covered by FTA.
In relation to the observations made in the audit, a lot of those things were captured either through our
internal safety reviews or the Public Utilities Commission as it relates to FTA and light rail. So what we did
is, essentially, go through, look at all the different components through our audits, internal safety reviews,
and make sure to incorporate those corrective actions into the Agency Safety Plan, as well as any
general directives or any updates to 49 CFR 673, 49 CFR 672, and 674 to make sure that we were in
compliance not only currently, but looking forward, as they are notice of proposed rulemaking. So we try
to ensure that we build things into the Agency Safety Plan to allow us to have a good foundation to overall
increase our safety performance.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you for that, Sky. I just wanted to share, we appreciate the input. And we're
working constantly. But I just wanted to provide that parameter since the new rule came out in May that
we instituted with the current PTASP for 2025. Thanks.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Anything else from committee members? Other directors?

Seeing nothing, our second item for review is the Internal Audit Function Review. Again, I'd like to ask
Matt Marino, Chief Audit Executive, RubinBrown, and Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to present
this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Dishell. And I'll get started. Wanted-- since this is the last Audit
Committee meeting of the year, I wanted to just say thank you to all the committee members for their
service.
It's very much appreciated. This is, really, the first full year, I believe, that we've had a well-functioning
Audit Committee as intended, as well as an internal audit function. So I want to thank RubinBrown as well
for their great work.
Just looking back, we started with RubinBrown in July of 2022. Really didn't get the internal audit function
up and running because of all the administrative issues in terms of developing an internal audit charter
and Audit Committee charter, informing the Board, and getting everything done in terms of the risk
assessment. That really didn't start in earnest until, I believe it was mid-2023.
So we've now got a little over a year really making good progress. Have completed some very good
audits. I think have been very valuable to the agency.
Matt and his team have-- Mr. Marino and his team have done a really good job being partners with RTD,
as intended from the internal audit function, to try to find areas for improvement. So I just wanted to
recognize that.
And so what we wanted to do with this discussion item-- and we don't have to think of everything under
the sun that could be improved at this point in time. But we at least wanted to introduce the topic of asking
the committee members to think of anything or present anything at this time.
And we can have an ongoing dialogue regarding possible improvements-- what went well, what didn't go
well, what we would like to see. Because we now have we've made several adjustments along the way.
And I think we've made some good progress in terms of what the committee would like to see, et cetera.
Mr. Marino, is there anything else you would like to add on this subject matter?
MATT MARINO: That was a great summation. Just to kick off the ways that I think we can improve, we've
learned throughout this process that-- I knew going in that RTD was a dynamic organization. And there
was many parties that have to be a part of it to keep it running.
But one thing that we've learned is we need to make-- double- and triple-check when we're working
through audit process that we have all vested parties at the table at different times throughout the audit
process to make sure there's no surprises or people being left out as part of the audit process, as far as
they might have relevant information or relevant input. So that's one thing. We've modified our kickoff plan
invite list a little bit.
And then also, I really appreciate Member Olenberger's plea for additional context in some of the audits
for some of the elements of RTD operations that may not be clearly delineated from the audit report, such
as the DTP contract. And what is the scope of how that impacts how things are done? So we'll take that
into consideration as we develop the future internal audit to make sure that we provide sufficient context
in those reports.
BOBBY DISHELL: Any other-- any input from folks? Mr. Olenberger, please.

JOHN OLENBERGER: I guess I would just add to what I said earlier, and what you just said, Matt, too,
not only for things that are unique to RTD, like the DTP contract, but for any of this, too, just looking at the
safety, too, maybe if we had a background section that said, there's X number of people who work on
safety. And safety, in addition to being important to the RTD, we're also under these federal regulations
that also monitor safety, or something just background for all reports and not just the unique ones, for
readers and for committee members like me, that we're learning about the RTD and excited to be part of
this and understanding how things work. But also to give us that background of what things look like for
RTD. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I would echo that. Mr. Olenberger, thank you for that suggestion. And it's
not only just for you. But it's a nice refresher for directors.
But I would add that going forward, we share these audits after this committee is complete, or passes
them along, with the full Board. And we have seven new board members coming on after the first of the
year. And providing some of that general overview and context, I think, will be very helpful going forward.
So thank you for that suggestion.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Mr. Brendel.
JIM BRENDEL: Yes, thank you. As mentioned in this discussion item, the plan was developed based on
the Enterprise Risk Assessment, which is about a year and a half old. And I just wondered how often
that's updated and whether there might be an opportunity to maybe provide that as part of some of the
periodic reports. So we can see where what we're doing at a particular point in time fits into the overall
risk assessment. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: So we're actually slated to update the Enterprise Risk Assessment here very soon. So
we've started some of the legwork on our end to aggregate the findings with regard to the old plan. But
then we're also going to-- knowing and full well that this committee was going to turn over some, as well
as the directors of the organization overall was going to see a significant turnover, we are going to update
the Enterprise Risk Management basically in Q1 of 2025 to make sure that the plan that we're going to go
forward is still meeting the risk-mitigation objectives of our audit plan.
JIM BRENDEL: Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Any other committee members? I have just a few notes on internal audit function and
ways to improve. I think starting with the Enterprise Risk Assessment, I think it may make sense to look at
the weighting of directors with respect, depending on when that is distributed, and how you weight within
the director "weighting" bucket, how you weight the eight directors who have been here and the seven
directors who might be filling this out within their first 90-ish days on the Board.
This is not to discount the new directors or their future capabilities but more so to say, if we're going to be
building a whole audit plan, and just under half of the people have 90 days or fewer to fill this out based
on 90 days' worth of understanding, I don't know that those should carry the same weight as someone
who has been on the Board for two to six-plus, seven-plus years. And thank you for your service.
And secondly, I wanted to raise-- I think there's a real opportunity here with internal audit function. We
saw a number of meetings have to get canceled or pushed, just due to a lot going on. And we have
triennial reviews and biennial reviews and internal audit and external audit.

And I think just to have a Chief Audit Executive and a team who can put together comprehensively for our
Board and for the public a dashboard of sorts-- I'll leave that to Mr. Summers and those who are much
brighter than I for how to make that look nice. But ideally, internal audit shouldn't be doing a review of the
same exact thing in year one of a federal review. We should be reviewing that in year two or year three to
see if we're complying with the plan or what we put forward.
And so to the-- I know this is probably harder than it sounds, but it would be great, I think, as we look
forward to really develop that. A, so directors know what's being audited, what's management committed
to, what haven't they. And B, I think it would probably help everyone just to have a centralized-- as it
relates to audit, as they all come to the board, here's what we're looking at. And here's where we are. And
here's what we're pushing against.
And these are the deadlines we've said we're going to make and we missed them. Or we made them, or
we adjusted them. And here's why we adjusted them, just so people have a comprehensive package and
can look backwards and forwards.
MATT MARINO: Understood. A nice overlay of the various reporting activities that we get to partake in
would be helpful. Because as you alluded to, there is different reviews that happen at different intervals.
And so it would be nice to follow up on the other auditors' stuff to make sure we're closing it out or being
proactive if we know it's coming also.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, and also as we're putting together that internal risk assessment and the audit
plan, just checking with management to say, hey, did you just respond to this last year in a different
audit? And can we incorporate that instead and audit against whatever was presented there? If you
already told the FRA, we're going to make these changes, you don't need to tell us we're going to make
the same changes. Let's check back in a year and make sure changes we said we were going to make
we actually made, or whatever timeline makes sense.
MATT MARINO: Yes, thank you. And we actually end up doing that sometimes in scoping. So the
financial metrics audit you-- that we will be reporting on, we did end up changing the scope a little bit,
because there was some things that were already noted by other agencies that-- no reason to monitor
that, other than maybe report on whether it was rectified. But thank you. I appreciate the feedback.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Chair Davidson, I saw you had a hand up, and then it disappeared.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Committee Chair. I took my hand down because I just was going to
wholeheartedly second what you had to say and just emphasize that I think that would be one of the
things that would be very helpful going forward is consolidation of those efforts. And as you also alluded
to, and I maybe just will take a moment to emphasize, that the centralization of some of that information.
And if Audit Committee is able to really understand the additional or the other reports and things that we
are subject to, it would help increase the-- decrease the repeating of things that have been done and then
simultaneously increase the insights the Audit Committee needs to have. So thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. And I think it can also probably help inform some of the committee
work plans for the whole Board. If the whole Board is aware that these things are happening, it can all
start to stack and layer and play together. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I would echo that. And I wanted to really tie it into the other committee work
plans. And effectively, the audit plan does that. But we have established a model within the organization

for-- or within the Board for committee work plans. And what you're suggesting, Director Dishell, fits right
in with that. So thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Any other feedback on the internal audit process? Any feedback maybe from
staff on whether there are things that get discussed here that you feel like the Board members of this
committee could do a better job of communicating out to the full Board to avoid repetition in committee?
Or will that dashboard help solve that problem? Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Committee Chair Dishell. And thank you to all the Audit
Committee members in reference to the comments and feedback provided. I know I've had some
opportunity to talk with members of the RTD Board relative to where we are with the audit function. And I
want to commend all of you for leaning in, recognizing that we were at a different place a couple years
ago.
And with anything, as we know from audit, there's always room for improvement. And we're here for it on
the management side. I think it would be quite advantageous as we move forward, as we've talked about,
the organizational risk assessment being able to delineate between what is done by the other regulators,
so you all can make informed decisions as well.
And as relates to a dashboard, Committee Chair Dishell, as you were sharing, or you were requesting
information relative to how that's disseminated, I was under the assumption that all Board members got
all committee meeting packets as we move forward, just as they do with other committees. And if there's
anything that we can do greater-- and I saw that Mr. Kroll came on. So he could either confirm or correct
me, which is-- OK, confirmed, right?
And as we go forward in providing more information, perhaps what we can do as staff leaning in is create
that nexus relative to where we are with the Federal Transit Administration triennial review and the topics
of review. So that better equips this entity to lean in to ensure that we're doing what we committed to do.
So that's what I had to offer up. I don't know if there's any of my other colleagues here on staff side that
would like to impart any feedback. But thank you for the opportunity to do so. I believe most of my
comments have been captured by those that have already spoken on the Audit Committee.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oops, wrong thing. Sorry.
BOBBY DISHELL: Anyone else? All right, are there any other matters to discuss?
MELANIE SNYDER: Oh, pardon, me, Director Dishell. I had my hand up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, sorry.
MELANIE SNYDER: That's OK. So it's just one thing that we did discuss at our Leadership Team meeting
yesterday was the opportunity for our leaders to give some feedback back to Mr. Marino's team, just
given that we've had a whole year of these audits. And I think that there are things that we can do to
better coordinate and, as Matt was saying, make sure that everybody who needs to know in the agency
and needs to be able to have the opportunity to weigh in, does that in an organized way.

And I know that we've-- the RubinBrown team has been incredibly patient with the RTD team, as we are
very busy with things that are going on. But I think there's opportunities for us internally to make sure that
we're all understanding and coordinating and making sure that we're getting the RubinBrown team
connected with the right people to answer the questions that they're asking. So I think I anticipate that
GM/CEO Johnson and our CFO, Doug MacLeod, will be having more conversations with the Leadership
Team, so we can get that feedback back to the RubinBrown team.
BOBBY DISHELL: Perfect. Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Two things. And General Counsel Snyder reminded me of one.
And that is GM/CEO Johnson commissioned an organizational assessment. And she's about to embark
on something called organizational resiliency.
But there will be, as I understand it, quite a few new Leadership Team members in the organization. And
it will be probably important to get them up to speed on this internal audit function as well. And I'll leave
that to Ms. Johnson. That's not for me. But just recognizing that we're going to see some different folks
come on board in the organization.
And then finally-- [COUGHS] excuse me-- I wanted to thank Chair Davidson for his commitment to this
committee and his service. And this will be his last meeting. So bid you a fond farewell. And you're always
welcome to come back to these Audit Committee meetings, as you see fit. But thanks again for your
service.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks. I just wanted to say, thank you, Director. And it is-- I really appreciate
this group. And as Ms. Johnson said a moment ago, that leaning in. I'll use that term. And appreciate
everybody for leaning in on this and for all the directors who really committed to partnering with staff to
really make this function work.
So thank you very much to all of you for that. And I wish you the best of luck. And I'm not leaving, so I will
be around. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Any other matters? I just wanted to give you all a thank you. This is my last meeting as
a director. Should it please the full Board, I will be joining you all as a independent outside person on the
Audit Committee next year, as my directorship ends on Sunday.
So thank you all so much. It's been a true honor and privilege. I'll still be here, just not as chair and not on
the full Board.
But this has been great. I think everyone took a little bit of a risk here in saying, well, how do we do this,
and how do we do it better? And it's not often that we get credit for that or that we're able to do that. And
to be able to do it over the past few years has really been great. So thank you to all of you.
To former Chair Buzek, who put together, I believe, our Internal Audit Ad Hoc Committee a few years
ago, Chair Davidson, who's helped steward this through, and Director Catlin, who also from before I first
joined the Board, was beating the drum very loudly on, hey, our audit function needs to be better.

And to General Manager/CEO Johnson and Doug MacLeod and Melanie and Ms. Snyder and the whole
team, thank you all so much. It's been a real privilege. And it's great to see all the great work that we're
doing continuing to improve the agency. So thank you all.
And with that, the next Audit Committee meeting is scheduled for February 2025, where the committee
will hold elections for chair and Vice Chair, as well as discuss its plan for the upcoming year. I also want
to note, for the sake of the record, that Chair Davidson arrived right at about 11:00 AM. And seeing no
other discussion, the meeting is adjourned as of 11:27 AM. Thank you, and have a good day.

