2023-03-07
Finance and Planning Committee Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: --to open up the-Good evening and welcome. The Tuesday, March 7th Finance and Planning Committee meeting will now
come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time, and I would respectfully ask
everyone attending this meeting to unmute yourself unless you're recognized to speak.
And for those in attendance who are interested in the Performance Committee, please be advised that
the Performance Committee meeting will come to order after this committee adjourns and we have a
short break.
For the sake of the record, my name is Doug Tisdale and I serve as the Chair of the RTD Finance and
Planning Committee. We thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that for the time being, the
committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will still be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio
and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes that we have of these meetings, will be posted
as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com for all of these materials. In
addition to that, a live stream of this meeting is available via RTD's YouTube channel, so you can go
there as well.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you please to raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you
before proceeding to speak. For those Directors and staff who are participating by phone, you can also
raise your virtual hands to indicate that you'd like to speak. And you do that by pressing star 9. And to
toggle your mute setting on the phone, you press star 6.
So if I may, I'd like now to proceed with the roll call for the committee members.
Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here. Director
DOUG TISDALE: Bobby Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director and Chair Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Michael Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.

DOUG TISDALE: Director Ian Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: There we go. And Committee Vice Chair Erik Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here. Thank you, sir. And the Chair, Doug Tisdale, is present.
For the record, I will note that I also see that we have Directors Sloan, Whitmore, and Williams who are
present. Are there any other Directors that I have not acknowledged who are present?
All right, then I think we have acknowledged everyone. We turn now to our next agenda item, Public
Comment. And so now I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic that is listed in the published meeting agenda for this current month's
meeting or for the immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and you haven't already done this, please either raise your virtual hand or press star
9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. And if you are dialed in, please
remember, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please also bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. And if you do not
wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted to us in writing.
And finally, if any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the committee, or if any member
of the public would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at
this following special email address. It's rtd.boardoffice-- one word-- at rtd-denver. com.
During public comment, the committee will not offer any comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to any kind of followup. And speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have up to
three minutes to speak.
And so now I turn to the Board Office staff to inquire whether anyone has indicated a desire to speak
during this public comment period. Ms. Parish.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Chair Tisdale, I do not see any hands raised and there were no emails received.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. No hands raised, no emails received. We'll pause, just in case there's
someone online who is slow and would like to raise their hand somehow. I hear nothing. So with no
participants in the queue, we will close the public comment period at this time.
Then the third item on our agenda is information from external entities. The Chair is not aware of any
information being presented to us from external entities this month. Ms. Parish, since I wrote that
comment, have any bits of information come in from external entities?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, ma'am.

Our next item is Recommended Actions. There is one recommended action on the agenda this evening.
That action is the system-wide fare study and equity analysis contract amendment. And the action is for
the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute a third
amendment to the contract with Four Nines Technologies to facilitate the completion and implementation
of the system-wide fare study and equity analysis in the amount of $435,000, increasing the total amount
not to exceed from $1,603,540 to $2,038,540.
Do we have a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Director Dishell.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Dishell has moved. Is there a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll second.
DOUG TISDALE: And that's Director Catlin. So I have Dishell and Catlin. And at this time, I would like to
ask Bill Sirois, who is our Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities, and Chris Quinn, who is our
Planning Project Manager, and Carl Green Jr., the Director of our Civil Rights Program, to present this
item.
Gentlemen, the floor is yours.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And again, this is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented
Communities. So I'll be doing the brief presentation today. And then I'll have Chris and Carl, who we'll be
available for any questions after my brief presentation.
So we're coming to you on the heels of our conversation last month on the fare study and equity analysis.
And I want to thank Board members who did submit comments by the March 1 deadline we appreciate
that, and we're looking at those, and we'll respond to those shortly, likely within the next, the Board cycle
for April. And what we do, we have received very positive feedback from Board members and
stakeholders on our recommended approach forward. So we're excited about that.
And then for tonight, again, like Chair Tisdale said, we're here to request funds in the amount of $435,000
to be added to the contract with Four Nines Technologies, who is our consultant for the fare study and
equity analysis. And there are a few reasons for this request.
First of all, we do have a schedule that we pushed out some, for a variety of reasons, not the least of
which is to make sure that we have adequate time to engage with the Board, to make sure that we can
fully have a conversation and dialogue with you all, as well as get some of the new Board members
acclimated to this study. So that is one reason.
The other piece is looking at our outreach process and making sure that we have a robust outreach
process for this last round of outreach that we'll be conducting for the fare study. So again, with that,
these monies really for this piece are really going to complete the scope as we've defined it.
And then the second area is the area where we're enhancing the scope. We're going beyond what kind of
identified but consistent with what's in it, meaning that we're looking to expand the outreach, in particular.
As outlined in the contract with the consultant, the real focus of this next outreach, as originally defined,
was really the public hearing process, which, as many of those of you who've been familiar with public
hearings, they are very matter of fact, in terms of presenting information and getting comment back.

But we do, with the standard that we've established with this process, we really want to continue on with a
more expansive outreach process and do things with the online information, social media, particularly with
the community-based organization outreach that we have been utilizing throughout this process and we
really think is a real value to this effort. So that is another piece of this.
And the last piece of that enhancing scope is really focused on looking to, actually, the ability with the
consultants to expand our response to questions or ideas that we may get through this process, just to
make sure that we have looked into them, to make sure that they're something worth considering, or not.
That would be a process that we would do associated with the comment period that we get.
And then lastly, the other reason for this request is for scope that's not currently identified in the contract,
which is outside the current contract, which is scope post a Board consideration of this recommendation,
which would be in that implementation phase where we have several months where we're building up to
the actual implementation of a fare study change, where staff, in particular, would have support from the
consultants to work on things like how we define and the steps to defining, like the LiVE expansion, as an
example, or other programs that we are considering with this fare structure changes.
So in the end, those are the reasons. And the budgets where this is coming from, there's two particular
budgets. One is the existing fare study budget. In 2021, we did get approval for an overall budget for the
fare study and equity analysis. We've contracted out a majority of it, but there is about $221,000 left in
that originally appropriated fund for the fare study. The second piece or source of funds for this effort
would come from the unrestricted fund, which is an amount a little over $213,000.
So that ends my presentation, which really just is really summarizing what's in the Board report. And so
with that, Chair, I'll open it up for any questions that the Board may have for us to answer.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Sirois. I appreciate that. And I would point out also that there
was an excellent Board report that set forth all these materials for the Board's consideration that was
circulated last week. And I know that many questions were answered there. But of course, there are
always some that are still outstanding.
So I will now recognize Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. The flavor of my question, just for clarity, is really for
purposes of making sure the record is on paper as a Board, to make sure we're asking those questions.
I think the first is-- this may be a question for counsel-- which is, at what point does adding scope lead to
or warrant issuing a new RFP? And at what point is adding scope to the services that are being provided,
is that sort of OK? Is there a clear line for that that we should be keeping in mind as Directors?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam General Counsel, if you may respond, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
Director Dishell, unfortunately there's not a clear answer, but what I can tell you is this one is such a
minor amendment that we're not approaching that line.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. That works for me. The other question is, how much money is left in the
unrestricted fund balance after this would be approved? Sorry. Assuming this is approved, how much
money would be left in the unrestricted fund balance, and are there-- yeah, leave it at that.

DOUG TISDALE: All right. Mr. Sirois, can you respond to that? Or do you want to call upon on someone
else?
BILL SIROIS: I would defer to CFO MacLeod to respond to that question.
DOUG TISDALE: Our Chief Financial Officer may respond.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Bill. And great question.
This will have a very small impact on our unrestricted fund balance. There's approximately $200 million in
unrestricted funds on the base system alone, which is where this funding would come from.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Set. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Any other Directors, members of the committee or otherwise, who
have questions for Mr.Sirois or Mr. Quinn or Mr. Green at this time?
Director Guzman, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I looked back at the contracts in the previous amendment, and I just have one quick
question. Part of the cost for the second, or for the first amendment to this contract was that they needed
help with translation. Let me rephrase that. They needed to create translation for Mandarin in Chinese,
which seems like it was part of the original contract that that scope of work was supposed to include
harbor languages and other languages that this work was done in.
So if we amend this part of it to continue with this scope of work, will that be included in this amendment,
or are we going to be asked to come up with additional funds for that type of work? Are there any other
foreseeable costs that could be associated with this amendment that we are not thinking about currently?
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's an excellent question. And I think Mr. Sirois can probably respond to
it. I take it the question is, based upon the fact that there might be other items that are triggered by virtue
of this amendment, that, for example, might include additional translation costs, as we observed in the
prior amendment, do you reasonably anticipate anything such as that? Mr. Sirois.
BILL SIROIS: First of all, thank you, Chair Tisdale.
To respond in terms of the earlier amendment, just to clarify. So some of the early works that we did, I
think-- and Carl Green probably can also add to this-- that we were doing full translation of a fairly long
survey that was in multiple languages. So that was a big piece of that. We've kind of transitioned to focus
on making those harbor languages available and accessible, but not necessarily always doing the
translation to Mandarin, and I think there were a few other languages that I know Carl could probably
speak to.

But I think the one thing I will say about this contract amendment, and I have confirmed it with the
consultants, is that this would be the last contract amendment. We would not be coming back to you for
any more, this kind of one. And we wanted to do it in one fell swoop. So that is the expectation.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. Director Guzman, any follow up based upon the
response by Mr. Sirois?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I just want to share my appreciation that you are doing that work and
have that foresight. I appreciate it very much. That's all.
BILL SIROIS: Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. Are there any other Directors, members of the committee or
otherwise, who have questions regarding this recommended action at this time? I will pause.
Seeing no hands and hearing no responses, I take it then that we have exhausted the questions that the
Directors have regarding this recommended action. So I will now ask whether as to the recommended
action, with a motion by Director Dishell and a second by Director Catlin, are there any no votes on this
matter?
Once again, I have paused to allow anyone to speak up. I heard no one speaking up. I see no hands
raised. Let me ask staff if you see any hands raised, because I may be missing something.
OK. Then with seven votes in favor and no negative votes and no abstention, that motion passes
unanimously and it will be referred to the consent agenda of the regular Board meeting.
Our next item on the agenda is discussion items. There are no discussion items that we have listed on
the agenda this evening. If a Director has a matter, we'll bring that up in Other Matters. But just for the
sake of the record, we had no discussion items that were formally listed.
So we turn to the last item on our agenda, which is Other Matters. And this is an opportunity for any of the
members of the committee, or for other Directors who are present in this committee meeting, to raise
another matter. Are there any other matters that Directors wish to discuss at this time?
Director Dishell, I see your hand and you are recognized, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. I would just quickly note that we are still finalizing the next meeting of the
Audit Committee. While I recognize this is not the Audit Committee, the work of the Finance Committee is
pretty tied to Audit. That next meeting is tentatively scheduled to be finalized March 14, 1:00 PM
Mountain time. It should also come out in your two-week calendar and other places as well, but since
we're all here together
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for sharing that with us, Director Dishell. We appreciate it.
Director Chair Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a quick reminder that we have our meeting, staff has put
together a program for our local elected officials at 7:30 AM tomorrow morning. And hope as many of you
as possible can be there. Thanks.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I think we even received a reminder from staff regarding
that, as well. It is, for the sake of the record and everyone who is curious, it is a virtual meeting. So it may
be at 7:30, but you don't have to go far. So please, if you haven't already advised Michael Davies that you
will be participating, please do so.
Any other matters from any other Directors? The Chair will note, as an other matter, simply to say that
you may have noticed that this meeting is actually out of the regular cadence of our meetings. We
ordinarily would have scheduled this meeting for next week, on March the 14th, but because of the
American Public Transportation Association legislative conference being held in Washington, DC next
week, we moved this meeting forward. So we thank you all very much for your accommodation on that,
for those of us who will be attending the leg conference in Washington, DC.
Based upon my comments or time to think, are there any other matters from any other Directors? Hearing
none, let me advise that the next meeting date for the Finance and Planning Committee will be Tuesday,
April 11, 2023. That's Tuesday, April 11. That puts us back into our regular meeting cadence of the
second Tuesday of the month.
And seeing no other discussion, no other hands raised, and not hearing any voices in opposition, then the
Chair will note that we stand adjourned as of 5:52 PM Mountain Standard Time. And we are going to
take, may I suggest-- with Director Davidson, Chair of the Performance Committee, with your consent, sir- may I suggest we take five minutes, and we'll call it 5:58 that we would reconvene, local time, 5:58 PM?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. That sounds good.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Let us take five minutes, ladies and gentlemen. And we'll be back with the
Performance Committee. Stay tuned. Thank you all for being here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, everyone. We'll convene the Performance Committee at 5:58 PM.

