RTD Board Study Session 09-01-20
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We did not utilize the existing FISA balances and we kept the current
surface levels, COVID-19 service plan level. Next slide? So this was kind of busy, but I wanted
to be able to show you the assumptions on the same page as the actual financial information.
So what this basically shows is that we did administrative reductions. Those are on the line that
says Admin. We were able to come in the Base System up with at least $14 million in reductions
in 2021. I'm going to run through 2021 and then talk about some of the anomalies in the future
years.
Then we have the annual contribution to reserves that we were making. And we decided, well, if
we're having to take money out of reserves, why are we contributing to reserves? So we
eliminated that contribution to the reserves.
We then utilized reserves in the first three months, or first three years, in this particular scenario.
We then utilized the FISA contribution. We have no project deferments in this particular
example, and then we have the savings.
The same philosophy was used for the FasTracks. In that case, we're estimating about $3.5
million administrative costs, use of reserves, FISA, which is the Rubber Tire Service
contribution, and service reductions. And again, these service reductions are approximately the
40% reduction that we've been talking about.
As you can see, in this case, we kept existing projects that were in there. For 2021, we have
electric vehicles and infrastructure. We have Burnham Yard that was in 2022. State highway 119
was scheduled for '23. And maintenance facility is scheduled for $58 million in 2025.
In this case, we left those projects in there. Even with those projects staying in there, in the Base
System, we are short over that period of time $5 million. In addition, for 2021, we did not fund
any projects from the asset management plan. So no maintenance, renewal, or new capital
projects in 2021. Now, that changes in '22 through '26. We fund about 70% of that. But in 2021,
we do not.
On the FasTracks system, you can see-- we might have to-- I don't know if you can scroll up or
not. But on the FasTracks system-- at least on my screen, it's not showing very well-- but we're
short on FasTracks about $26 million over the six-year period.
Now we're able to balance using the reserves in the near term, but when we start getting out in
2023, we're not able to do that. So after using all the tools we identified, we're still needing to
solve for $5 million in the Base System and $26 million dollars in FasTracks. Next slide.
So another option would be to defer some of the large projects. So in 2021, we have the option of
deferring the electric buses. Now, we kept those in for right now because the electric buses at the
charging stations are mostly grant-funded.

So out of the $16 million cost, $5 million of it is RTD funds. The rest are two grants, both a
federal grant and the Volkswagen settlement. That can always be deferred. It can only be
deferred so long before we lose the grant, however.
In this particular, we show that we deferred Burnham Yard, State Highway 119, and the
maintenance facility. Now, the reason we have the maintenance facility in here is, 1, our
maintenance facilities are really old. But 2, more importantly, is if we did State Highway 119, in
our old funding scenarios, our old midterm financial plan, we did not have capacity to
accommodate the vehicles that would be purchased through this project. So we needed that.
Now, that might change in this particular situation. As we're reducing service, we will have more
availability of space and we may not need that additional maintenance facility in the particular
year that was funded in the current midterm financial plan. But in this scenario, we have deferred
those three projects. This will impact the Base System.
So with those deferments, we are able to start bringing back some service on the Base System in
2023, and then we're able to bring back more service in 2026 with the deferment of those
projects. In the previous slide, we were not able to bring service back in this time period at all
without deferring projects.
We do come out with a positive balance of $3 million at the end of 2026. On the FasTracks,
however, since those projects were all Base projects, deferring those did not assist with funding
this $26 million shortfall in FasTracks. So we would need to do some additional things to be able
to close that gap and do so without completely taking all the reserves out, because we're only left
right now with one month of reserves in FasTracks. Next slide.
So a couple of the options to be able to shore up the FasTracks shortfall would be, 1, is taking
out of the existing 2020 FISA. And we know that that was a really sensitive subject, in that our
goal was to try to avoid that. So we came up with some other options.
The Board said, through 2026, we could utilize the contribution of Rubber Tire Service. Well, in
addition to Rubber Tire Service from the Base, we also made contributions to the FISA from
project saving, through any land sales that we may have. The Credit Risk premium, if we get that
back from the feds, would go into the FISA , normally, per the current Board resolution.
And so what we're recommending, that as we identify project savings from SERE, which we
should have shortly-- from North Metro, 225, and our program-wide FasTracks project-- rather
than putting those into the FISA, so we would look at using those to offset the shortfall in
FasTracks, even though they're in outyears.
So what we're looking for tonight is, how are you feeling about the assumptions that we've made,
trying to stick to your guidance? What is your feeling about using projected contributions that
would come in in the future to offset the shortfall we're anticipating in FasTracks?

How do you feel about deferring those projects? And are you wanting to take any funding out of
the existing 2020 FISA balance? So I would open that up, and Bruce, did you have anything you
wanted to add?
BRUCE ABEL: So if we use project savings from SERE, projects savings from North Metro,
225, and Credit Risk, and Project Life savings, does that allow us to balance the budget without
going into the existing funds?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, it would.
BRUCE ABEL: Thanks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But it would need most of those things to get us there.
BRUCE ABEL: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I wouldn't have listed them if I didn't think we would have
savings from those areas. So each of those areas, we're anticipating some savings, to various
degrees, that would put us at or above the $26 million over that six-year period of time.
For instance, the Credit Risk premium may not happen this year. Might happen in 2021. But at
some, hopefully, time in the future, it will happen. SERE project savings might happen sooner
rather than later, as we're closing out that project right now. North Metro might take another
year.
So they all have varying degrees as one when they would become available, but between all of
those, they would cover the $26 million shortfall. Anything else, Bruce? OK. Chair, I would love
to open it up to hear feedback and what everybody is feeling, and we'll be taking notes.
Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot to mention the next step. This is just a calendar event. I did get pointed out
that September 27th is not a Board of Directors meeting. It's a Sunday evening, unless you would
like to meet on Sunday. It really is September 29th. So that will be fixed in the next presentation.
I apologize for that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's all right. Thank you so much. I'm going to go Board
Member by Board Member to make any comments or have any questions. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No comments at this time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I guess you want some input on what our
thoughts are. And why I think you know what my thoughts are on the FISA. I appreciate that
you're not hitting the corpus of the FISA, but just taking the future contributions.

But of course, I'm concerned about that as well. I think there might be some other directors that
may speak to some other things regarding truncating the midterm financial plan length, and if
that comes up, I'd like to speak again after that. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am in support of deferring some of the-- excuse
me, let me back up. I'm in support of trying to capture those savings that were identified on the
last slide. In the event that we're unable to capture those, I would be in favor of trying to finance
the shortfall from the FISA, which I believe is the equivalent of a reserve, but only as a last
resort.
I mean, these are tough choices to make. But with regard to truncating, or shortening the length
of the midterm financial plan, I recognize that we need to pass the midterm financial plan in
order to create the 2021 budget.
If we truncate the midterm financial plan, I just wanted to remind Board Members that this
changes every year. So whether or not we ignore the last three years, or whatever, of the midterm
financial plan, it will most likely change coming next year. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair, Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. I was tinkering with my mute, and so I wanted to make sure I
understood part of this. Heather McKillop, in one of the items, you were seeking some guidance
or head not or something on, are you talking about the already planned-for FISA contributions,
the ones that we already had been piling into that fund every year, or are there additional items,
CRP or something, that you're seeking guidance on, with regard to that fund?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather. So what we're seeking guidance on,
we were not able to balance FasTracks with the resources we had available under the guidance
that we had been given between 2021 and 2026.
So the items listed on that one page that discussed savings from SERE, savings from 225, the
Credit Risk premium, those are all things under the current Board resolution that would be
contributed as they became available to the FISA. So what we're suggesting is rather than
contributing those to the FISA, as some money becomes available, we put those towards the
shortfall instead of going into the FISA pot.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So that clarifies, thank you. You wanted some feedback on
assumptions. I'm not clear why we're not estimating fair revenues based upon the service level. It
was something I wrote you about today, but I wasn't clear why we didn't adjust our forecast
based upon what probably are going to be lower fare collections. Can you answer that right
quick?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I did mention that we will be adjusting that. What we were looking
to see was what July and August actuals were. So what were people going to start riding again?

How fast were they going to start riding? What routes were they going to be riding? Are they
paying with cash? Are they paying with passes?
What are EcoPasses doing? What are college passes? So we were trying to buy some time to
figure out what that might look like after we brought fares back on July 1st. I now have two
months' worth of data, and it looks like our fair collections are right around 50% of what our
estimates were before.
So with that information, and now having a little more clarity on colleges going back and some
discussions with our EcoPass holders, we are revising those estimates. As I mentioned, we'll be
showing that next week. We did not have that information in time to put this package together
last week, so we'll be adjusting those accordingly. And as I mentioned, it's probably going to be
about 60% to 65% of what we had anticipated previously.
SHELLEY COOK: Are you saying 6-0 or 5-0? 6-0? 60?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: 6-0 to 65%, yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you. And yeah, again, I missed that. I apologize for that.
So on Burnham Yard-- and I wish I'd remembered to ask this today, but it didn't occur to me-- so
I remember that there is some efficiency gained, in terms of widening the throat for the light rail
coming through that corridor.
Are there any capital costs associated with that widening or with realizing that benefit? And
should we make sure we're ready for any? In the same vein that we talk about being ready for
any infrastructure funding possibility, should we be ready for that capital possibility as well?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather, and I'll probably let Bill Van Meter,
if he's on, chime in because he's had the conversations with CDOT on this issue. But CDOT has
purchased-- I guess is the right word-- or they're in agreement to move forward with purchasing
that land. They are getting ready to embark on an environmental assessment, which will take
multiple-- well, it might be an EIS-- take multiple years to move forward with.
Their funding has dried up quite a bit also, and so when we contacted them, let them know we
may have issues with having that money available in 2022. I think they were understanding and
that they didn't feel that that would be a huge impact to the project, because they weren't sure
where their project would be at that point in time either. Like I said, I don't know if Bill Van
Meter is on, but he had the conversations with CDOT. He might be able to answer that question a
little more clearly. Bill are you on?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, Mr. Van Meter, are you on?
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter. I am on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.

BILL VAN METER: OK. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning. And
that was a good characterization by CFO McKillop as to the situation. So CDOT and the railroad
have agreed that CDOT intends to purchase the Burnham Yard. CDOT also has started applying
for grants to help fund their purchase of the whole yard.
We have indicated consistently to CDOT our interest in about a 50-wide right of way adjacent to
our current central corridor, from north of Alameda to south of 13th Avenue. The $7.5 million is
intended to be allocated to CDOT for purchase of that right of way. It does not include any
money for the required capital improvements, which would come subsequent to that right of way
preservation effort, in conjunction with CDOT, and would cost many, many millions, tens of
millions of dollars in order to add the additional rail and supporting infrastructure systems,
infrastructure necessary to actually increase the capacity.
We know we're going to have that need, based on current forecasts, someday in the future to add
additional capacity on the central corridor. It's not imminent. And similarly, CDOT's purchase of
that right of way does not appear to be imminent. My understanding is that they are not intending
to do that purchase any time soon because of their current financial constraints and a desire to
prioritize more immediate and pressing investments. Does that make some sense?
SHELLEY COOK: It does. It doesn't sound like we could make it shovel-ready-BILL VAN METER: Correct.
SHELLEY COOK: --because of the delay in timing for purchase. OK. Thank you, Bill.
BILL VAN METER: Yup.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Heather and Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you so much. So that includes your questions for
now? Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I can. Please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, this is really a miracle, I tell you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [LAUGHS]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And I think this is sort of a nightmare process for me, but anyway, I'm
here. So I didn't get to hear Heather's entire presentation, but I am pretty familiar with what's
going on, and I think, in general, it's a prudent approach.
I think this is a solid plan that we can work with, and if we get other things that we're hoping to
receive, other funding mechanisms, then we don't have to pull certain triggers. But I do think it's

a solid and balanced approach. I know it's difficult, and this conversation will continue to be
difficult, but I think we're headed in the right direction. So thank you all very much for the hard
work you've done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I have a couple of thoughts. One of them has to do with
pulling the money for 119, and there are a lot of different pieces up there. I guess my first
question, Heather, is have we talked to the other agencies and local governments and partners
that are putting money towards that project what it would mean drastic postpone till 2027?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I have not had that conversation. I'll ask Bill to chime in if he's had
that conversation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bill?
BILL VAN METER: Chair? Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, please.
BILL VAN METER: Again, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning. We
have notified stakeholders that this is a consideration, and those stakeholders being local
governments, as well as CDOT, that this is a potential consideration.
Since we haven't gone much further, we haven't really had much opportunity to delve into the
details, the impacts, and how that might affect things. I would venture to say that the idea, the
concept of a delay has not been well-received, but it's been understood, given our financial
situation. And that's about all I can add.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I had a phone call today and I'll just run through what that world
looks like. RTD put in $33 million-- is that the number for 2023?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, that's the inflated number. $30 million inflated, yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So CDOT has just released an RFP for the final design work, to hire a
consultant to create the final design. The CDOT Commission approved $40 million in transit and
roadway funding. And then in August, well after all of the money problems were known, that
$40 million was still shown in years 1 to 4, 2020 to 2024. So CDOT has recommitted its money
to the project.
And a lot of this money came in based on RTD initially saying that we would support the
project. Boulder is adding bus lanes. They found the funding for bus lanes on 28th Street.
Longmont is adding bus access lanes on Coffman. Longmont has applied for a build grant-- I
don't have the exact number, I think it's about $20 million-- to fix a very busy intersection.

It's 119 Hover Street. It's basically the initial intersection coming from Boulder into Longmont,
and create multimodal improvements there. Boulder County got DRCOG funding for the
bikeway final design. They're starting that in 2021. Commuting Solutions is working on a first
and final mile study, with funding through DRCOG. HPT is investing $500,000 this year to
study traffic and revenue on the 119 [INAUDIBLE] lanes.
So my point being that a lot of people are working very hard on this and a lot of grant funding
has been applied for or granted based on this. So it really is a very good example of a project that
we shouldn't pull or defer until certainly at least a lot of conversation is had.
And that started me thinking, and an earlier phone call today that got thinking, about the
importance of where we're searching for money to budget 2026. It's a world that's different. As
Heather said, our fair revenues, even for 2021, are significantly different from what they were.
So I understand the importance of budgeting out into the future, but this year, I just think it's not
particularly helpful and it will create a lot of political fights. We have a new CEO coming in, so
budgeting out six years-- I know it can be changed, but once you start changing the gears on
some of these things, it's hard to change back.
And so I am proposing, and I think a couple of people have referred to this, that we approve the
midterm financial plan for years 2021 and 2022. We have a sketch for further out, but we wait,
let our new CEO come in, and start to get a little more sense of what our numbers look like
before we go further out. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Ms. McKillop, can you talk about that, in terms of
how we are planning for this piece? And could we go a shorter piece, 2021, 2022?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Right now there are really two main reasons that we do a midterm
financial plan every year. One is that the Board's fiscal policy calls for that. That is a Board
policy, so that could be changed.
We bring that to you every year in October so that you can review those policies and make a
decision as to whether you want to change anything or not. We already do have a few changes to
that policy based on the fair revenue deferment of that out of 2022 to 2023, et cetera.
So there are things that we change each year, but that is one place that we would have to identify
a change. And then the other is for TIP purposes. So there DRCOG plan. There is no
requirement, however, that we adopt a new six-year plan every year. That is just, again, a
practice that RTD has done.

We can shorten the plan, if you would like to, if the Board's direction is that to us, through '21
and '22. It would just mean that project years '23 through '25 would be reflected in the old
approved plan from last year. That's what would be reflected in the TIP.
Again, we have an opportunity every year to change that. We will be changing it, probably next
year, as we get more information. So right now, I don't see anything that would prohibit that, if
the Board was willing to change their policy on that and shorten the plan to a two-year plan
versus a six-year plan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Ms. McKillop. OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that finish your questions, Treasurer Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think so. I guess one more question is, if we passed a two-year plan
right now-- and I don't know when the TIP requests are due, but could we revisit it? When are
those due, I guess?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I would have Bill answer that, but I think we already have the TIP
projects already identified through 2023. I could be wrong, so I'm going to let Bill address that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Van Meter?
BILL VAN METER: Searching for the Unmute button again. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant
General Manager of Planning. My recollection and understanding aligns with what CFO
McKillop just said.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Are we good, Treasurer Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, I'm done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi. I actually have a few questions because I want to make sure I'm
understanding this. But I'd like to take us back to the draft COVID budget reduction principles,
because I think those principles are important and I'm trying to understand how those are being
applied for these things, particularly.
So looking at the "keeping riders employees in the region healthy and safe, service reduction
should not be our primary response. We'll create a balanced approach to budget reductions, and
do so in such a way as to align with our mission accordingly. We'll prioritize mobility for people
who most depend on transit during the pandemic.

We will support and value our employees. We will use being data-driven and informed by
collective wisdom and expertise. And we'll actively be transparent and seek input, as it pertains
to the CARES Act money."
And so I look at these, what you printed here, Heather, and I appreciate your presentation. I'm
trying to understand, on package page 13, or even package page 14, as we are looking at the
funding sources and we are not utilizing-- we're dipping into our reserves, but we're not utilizing
the FISA balances.
I'm concerned, particularly as someone who has been inundated with calls from constituents
about our current service levels-- routes that have been running Saturday, Sunday service that
may have only had Monday through Friday service.
To me, it doesn't feel as though-- it doesn't look as though if we are not utilizing our FISA
balances, then we are putting back to these principles that we have before us-- that we are
supporting and valuing our employees, that we are prioritizing mobility for people who most
dependent on transit, if we're just keeping money in a pot and hoping to be able to use it at some
future date.
That is concerning for me because I know that there are lots of folks-- again, I've gotten so many
phone calls from my constituents about bus routes that are no longer running. And it has really
been a hardship on them, and so that that's a concern for me.
And so I'm only speaking as one individual, single director, that I would encourage us, before we
start to even dip into our reserves, that we utilize our FISA balances, because we have services
that people need today who have been impacted by COVID, who are trying to get to work today.
And I imagine, as a staff, you all are trying to figure out how to do that, but I would really,
strongly suggest as a Board-- and I think we said this earlier-- that there were no secret stones-- I
think that was someone's language-- that we would use what we had in the bank. And it doesn't
feel as though we're doing this, as I'm looking at this, as these documents. And maybe I'm
reading these incorrectly.
I do have a question about the maintenance of our rail, so both commuter and light rail. I'd
imagine that our rail is much more expensive than our bus, our Rubber Tire Service. And so I'm
just curious of the cost of that and what cost savings looks like for rail, particularly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Who would like to take that on? I don't know if I should. Mr.
Ballard, I'm going to turn this over to you because there's so questions embedded in there.
PAUL BALLARD: Is Dave Jensen on tonight, Mike? Dave Jensen can probably best handle the
rail maintenance questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Mr. Jansen?
KATE WILLIAMS: Dave, you're muted.

BRUCE ABEL: Michael, if you want me to talk to the-PAUL BALLARD: I think that Dave was on, but then he got caught up in the mix up in the
numbers.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK.
PAUL BALLARD: So sorry about that. And if I could ask Director Lewis to re-ask the question
and we can address it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I was curious of the cost of the
maintenance for our rail and our commuter rail.
DAVE JENSEN: Well, I would have to look at the budget to get those actual numbers. I'm not
sure. I think Bruce is indicating that he might have a better answer to that.
BRUCE ABEL: I have, I think, a couple of answers to a couple pieces of your
question/comments, one being as it relates to your comments on the guiding principles. I think
that one of the things that as we move forward with Jesse and his team, presenting the proposed
January service changes which will take place in September, at the September ops committee, as
we've had some conversations previously, we will be at the same level of service.
But we would anticipate redeploying those service hours from underutilized routes to better
serve routes that have retained ridership, most of which are routes serving folks who depend on
transit, rely on transit, and have the essential jobs. So I know from conversations with Jesse up to
this point in time, we would expect to see a proposed redeployment of those service hours to
indeed make sure we are putting our resources where our riders have been, many being equity
communities, folks who rely on transit and have the essential jobs.
As it relates to rail, again, as part of the proposed service changes that will come before the
Board-- and I believe it's two weeks-- I would anticipate from conversations that there will be
proposed adjustments to rail to generate some cost savings, as well as some improvements in
reliability, by improving operations on the C/D, the E/F, as well as the R. And so I would
anticipate that recommendations in those arenas will be coming up at the ops committee in I
believe it's two weeks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks, Bruce. It would be helpful-- and maybe this was coming up in a
few weeks and that's what you were saying-- to see the-- the current ridership, because I know
the approach that we took when we were first looking at these reductions was really just to go to
a Saturday/Sunday schedule, and that wasn't really conducive for the folks who are in those
essential roles.
And so I would like the opportunity to re-evaluate that, to make sure that we haven't taken
services from folks who do rely on transit, who are in essential roles, and relying on transit

Monday through Friday, and now have no service at all because their buses, their trains didn't
run on Saturday or Sunday.
So that's one piece. Going back to the piece that you mentioned from the guiding principles-- and
I'll ask it in the form of a question, and maybe it's a question for staff or maybe it's a question for
the Board. I'm genuinely concerned.
Here, where it says we'll prioritize mobility for people who depend on transit during the
pandemic, it feels like a contradiction, or maybe it's just in conflict, that we wouldn't utilize our
existing FISA balances, while we're also saying that we are going to make sure that we have
services for those who depend on public transportation now during the pandemic.
So we're holding on to money for maybe 2040 and 2060, but we have people in 2020 today that
are reliant on our services and need our services. And we're trying to figure out, as an agency,
where are some cost savings, where we might be able to afford additional dollars, but we are not
using the FISA balances, and so I'm having a hard time understanding that.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, General manager.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. I really can't address the philosophical question that Director
Lewis is asking because that really is a Board policy question. But I do want to assure her that
we, through our deliberations, are looking very carefully at the services that are most relied on by
the community, those services where we have had to put out the most backup service.
And as the run Board has been put together and as we look at the service levels, we are focusing
on taking care of those priority areas. So I do want to assure Director Lewis that we're very
sensitive to that aspect within the available funds that we have. So that is a priority, if that's
helpful to Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It is. I appreciate the reassurance, Mr. Ballard, and I appreciate the work
that you all are doing on this. I hope you don't take my questions as an indictment or as
accusatory. I have a genuine concern for folks who are utilizing public transportation and really
depending on it.
And so I guess I was having a hard time with us not using money that we have access to to
ensure that those folks have access to transit. And so I hope you take it as a genuine question and
not an indictment of any sort, of the work that you and your staff are doing, but a general
curiosity from one director who's wants to make sure that folks who need public transportation
during this time have access to it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Does that conclude your questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: One final question. So Director-- or maybe Guissinger, I'm sorry-mentioned maybe passing a two-year plan instead of what we had before. So I was just curious,

Heather-- and you may not have it off the top of your head because it just came to you-- but what
the implications of that might be.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I addressed a little bit of that in talking when Director Guissinger
asked her question. I think it just gives us a much shorter timeframe to look at. And so always
with a plan, if you do a longer period, you know what might happen and you can do other things
to make sure that does not happen or it does happen, depending on your perspective.
I do understand-- because, of course, I've been saying the same thing, that this is a very uncertain
time, that things may change rapidly, and that trying to go out to 2026 at this point in time, just
like we recommended not going out to 2050 because of the uncertainty-- I can understand that
point of view.
Like I said, other than changing your fiscal policy that says you'll do this every year, I don't think
there is necessarily a downside to doing that at this time, as long as everyone's aware that we still
need to continue to plan for the future. Transportation moves very slowly, so if we don't plan for
it now, we can't expect that outcome into the future. But I don't see, from a financial standpoint,
that there's a huge downside to that at this point in time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you. And then one final question. You mentioned that because
you all were pooling from the reserves, that you had decided that there wasn't a need for you all
to contribute. Is that permanently? Are we anticipating that we'll just exhaust the reserves and
then we're done there?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, no. [LAUGHS] I would hope not, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to clarify.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm a huge proponent of having reserves, and I think the work we've
done over the last few years has allowed us to get to this place, where we actually have some
reserves that we could draw upon. But the idea was during this six-year period of time, why
contribute when we were just pulling it out?
Basically, we're contributing with one hand and pulling it out with the other, until which time it's
stabilized, and then we would start making contribution again to that reserves. If we can do that
sooner rather than later, that will definitely be my preference, and we will be aiming towards
that.
For instance, we've discussed this with the Board on numerous occasions. If revenues come in
higher than what we anticipated for the sales and use tax for 2020, we have talked about making
sure that gets into the reserves. We roll that money forward, and then we can use it to offset
future issues, or just keep it in reserve until we can see how things are going. I know it's showing
up over the six-year period of time, but it would be more of a short-term solution to balancing,
rather than a long-term change in policy.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Final question. So worst case scenario, if you were to continue to move
from the reserves and not contribute to the reserves over the next six years, what do you
anticipate the fund balances would be?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Depending on whether we defer projects or not to build up that fund
balance, we would have somewhere between four and six weeks in the Base System and four
weeks in FasTracks at the end of the six-year period, if no other things change.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Heather. That's all that I have, Madam Chair.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I'm speaking by phone because in spite of all the work that has
been done trying to get my computer up, work on this thing, it's not working. But oh, well. I
wanted to thank everybody for the work that they've done putting this together.
Given the big trouble that we're all in, I think it's a well-thought-out plan, although I personally
would love to see us speak more with the unions and our contractors and our stakeholders and
the accountability committee and kind of throw it open for creative ideas. We have already
received one creative idea from a bus driver that has passed around and I think it's interesting,
and I'd like us to be available for as many creative ideas as possible.
I live in an area where FISA is important, where we have not gotten our rail, and there are a few
areas like that in our district. And I need and want to support keeping the body of the FISA
account so that if things move forward, such as with the federal stimulus, that we would have
some matching money to do our part. I think it's very important.
And I also think that we're being asked to compromise, once again, by allowing the annual
appropriations to the FISA to be taken. And to me, it's not something I want but I could live with
it, and I think that's a reasonable compromise.
I support Director Guissinger singer's idea to reduce the midterm plan for two years, just for this
one time. And it's because of the fact that she had raised, that we have a lot of partners on the
119 project that have put in a lot of time, a lot of money getting grants, et cetera.
And that would all be up in the air and cut loose if we stated publicly we are taking out our
funding. So what I would suggest doing is just doing a two-year plan, and then revisiting it.
We're obviously going to have to revisit it. Everything's in a state of flux. But that way, it won't
be written in stone that, yes, we're saying we're not going to do the 119 project for three or four
more years, and I would hate to do that to our partners.
Similarly, in terms of protecting FISA, I like the idea of the FasTracks shortfall, if we do indeed
go with the longer midterm plan, taken out of the various projects savings. So that's it for me.
Thank you all for your work.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. First, I don't recall where we went from where we had talked about
the forecasting of a low to mid to just going to the mid. I'm just noting I think it would make
even more cuts. But I don't recall when that did occur, and so I just mentioned that for a public
statement.
But I am still concerned about the reserves, the regular reserves going down to one month. And
the comment in response to that has typically been, if we do encounter a true emergency, we can
use the FISA. But that means it goes through another action of the Board, and if we do get into
that situation, just one month, for myself, brings a lot of concerns. And if we are in a true
emergency, how much time and flexibility would we have to have that conversation? We can
already see that the FISA is bringing about a lot of discussion.
Second, as to this plan overall, I think there are certain pieces of this that are long overdue and
have led us to this part of the problem that we're in right now. That pretty much covers the detail
or the parts that I wanted to cover. But I did have one question, and this would be for Legal
Counsel, Mr. Snyder. Are you on this call?
MELANIE SNYDER: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder. I am on the call. I'm just asking
whether there is a question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: There is a question from Director Menten. Director Menten, go
ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I would like to know, Snyder, if you could send me an email and tell
me specifically what would be the process to de-annex out of the Regional Transportation
District. I think it might be maybe in 32-1-502, but I am not sure if that's the section of Title 32,
where somebody could read about the process. So would you give me assistance with that and let
me know what section of CRS I should focus on for that question?
MELANIE SNYDER: Director Menten, this is Melanie Snyder. Yeah, absolutely. I'm happy to
do that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. And then as a follow-up, besides my concerns about the onemonth reserve, whereas in my lineup, going back to 1, 2, 3, 4, reserves would have been the last
thing we would have touched.
We would have touched FISA, the sitting account, right now before we would go after the
reserves. I do think I'm in agreement with what has been laid out, and I appreciate the time that
Bruce gave me and Paul to go into some more of the details. So that's it. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik, are
you on the line?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, I am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You have the floor, sir.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten, I hope it doesn't come to that, although prior to
this, there was rumbling down here of trying to secede or de-annex. I hope it doesn't come to
that, but-KATE WILLIAMS: Ken, we can't hear you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
KEN MIHALIK: Can you hear me now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: A little better, yes.
KEN MIHALIK: I'll try to get a better spot. Heather, as always, really good work, you and your
group. And I, too, with Director Menten, wanted to see that the FISA would be used first. My
apologies to the colleagues up north, but it's almost like that story of the person dies in this
squalor but it turns out that they had this massive bank account.
No one knows about it till after they pass away. But we have the money sitting there and
meanwhile we're making some really challenging adjustments, and so I would like to see that
certainly on the table. But otherwise, really good work and I'm in support of the
recommendations.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale, you have the floor.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Relative to the discussion on the State
Highway 119 project, I did want to clarify one thing, because in the meeting that Director Broom
and I had with Mr. Ballard and Mr. Abel, we talked about the fact that there was, in the plan, the
intention to defer capital projects for one or two years.
And I think there might be some confusion on the way this was presented. Is it the proposal, as
we have seen it now in the presentation given to us, that the State Highway 119 project would, in
fact, be deferred until 2027?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct. It would be postponed past 2026. We haven't done the
'27 beyond, so I couldn't tell you exactly when it could come back in again.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Well, I will point out that's at odds with what I understood. And if I had
heard that when I had that meeting, I would have expressed concern over the deferral of the 119
project for that long, for the reasons that have been stated by other directors, so I won't rehash

those. I think that's significant. And I think we do have an obligation to address that for a host of
reasons, which I don't need to [INAUDIBLE].
Relative to the question of creating a two-year midterm thing into a plan, I would suggest that in
reality, we always have, really, a one-year midterm financial plan. Yes, it's stated as being-excuse me-- a what, five- or six-year plan, but we review it and we revise it annually. That said,
if it is, in fact, only a Board policy that we have this longer term midterm financial plan and it is
not statutorily or regulatory required, then of course, we can change it.
But I would ask, because the answer that I thought I heard from our CFO was that the only
reason for that particular length of the midterm financial plan is a Board resolution, a Board
policy, established by a resolution. Am I correct that there is no other impact on the midterm
financial plan, from a statutory or a regulatory point of view?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that is a true statement. If we were in a year that we were
working on the TIP or something else, I would probably recommend that we move forward with
a longer period than just two years, but at this current time, it would just be a change to your
current Board fiscal policy. It's not a statute that you have to have it and it is not a federal
requirement, other than you have some type of planning process, which is what we're going
through now. But the timeframe is not designated.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that clarification. That informs me and gives me
something to think about. Should a proposal be made in a regular meeting to adjust the length of
the midterm financial plan, I might be inclined to go along with that, again, for the reasons that
have been stated by the other directors.
There are some other points that might come up in the conversation that I might ask, with the
Chair's kind indulgence, to weigh back in on, but for the time being, those are my comments and
I thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so very, very much, Director Tisdale. Director
Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Can you hear me OK?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: OK. I have a couple of questions. What's the longest lead time on items that we
need to purchase-- buses, scale, et cetera, wires communication cables beyond two years?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can I get that repeated?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. What's the longest lead time on any of the items that we know we will
have to purchase?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, that varies. Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop. I mean, that
varies quite a bit. If we're talking railcars, it's years. If we're talking buses, it's a year. If we're
talking various wires and other things, it just depends.
We try to address that through our inventory system so that we can make sure for those things,
like repair parts and things, that we have those in stock. Right now, I think you're probably
alluding to the deferring of the asset management plan, probably by one year, and what the
impacts of that might be.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So we have gone through that. We have a still kept an internal
contingency in case we have emergencies, where we would have to address some type of
emergency situation. But right now, we think we can defer that asset plan by one year.
The issue we're going to have, and I'll present this as part of the midterm package, is that the
longer we defer things, the more risk we potentially incur and the higher the dollar amount will
be over time, because those costs get inflated. So there is an ultimate cost of deferring those, but
I think we've been able to address getting the most immediate needs taken care of for 2021 while
deferring a majority of those projects and maintenance activities to 2022 through 2026.
JEFF WALKER: And I'm thinking about some of the other agencies, the larger legacy agencies
that ran into a whole lot of problems because they deferred-- maybe even some that weren't that
old, like San Francisco Metro-- that aren't that old but they just delayed-- not San Francisco,
BART-- that delayed their maintenance activities for several years, and then they had a lot of
problems trying to catch up.
I think San Francisco might also have a different type of non-standard rail car and rail systems
also. Is there a financial benefit to using existing funds versus future contributions to the FISA?
So like bond ratings, for instance-- more favorable on using cash instead of assumed income as a
revenue.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Not necessarily because we know that we're going to make a certain
amount of contribution each year and we're just directing that to a different use. I think the rating
agencies in the conversations we would have with them, they actually consider the FISA balance

that we have there a form of reserve. So therefore, they look at that as a liquid cash in a positive
manner, that we have that money sitting there.
JEFF WALKER: And then the last question. So four weeks of reserves in 2026 if we pull-- I'm
sorry, four weeks of operation reserves if we pull from reserves now, or through the life of this. I
assume we'd be able to adjust the schedule. We'd know well enough in advance to adjust the
schedule to meet and possibly extend that four-week period. Is that a correct assumption?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. That is correct. And one thing I do want to mention that I forgot
to mention through the course of the discussion is that four- to six-week reserve was based on
our 2020 original budget. I would recalculate that based on our cost reductions that we're taking
in our reduction service.
So that amount that we have, there might actually be longer than four to six weeks, but I haven't
been able to rerun that calculation because we haven't settled on what those three final reductions
are. So as soon as I know that and I will present that for the September 15th, those reserves
might actually get us a little further, just because our overall operating and money out the door is
going to be less, if that makes sense.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. Yeah, that's makes sense, and that's what I was thinking or assuming. So
now the part you've all been waiting for. I'm not in favor of postponing 119, State Highway 119
to 227, and we do have partnerships there.
Providing that mobility, I think, is critical. I only went to get to one of the meetings up there a
couple years ago. I think it was in 2018 or 2017. But there was a lot of interest. There was more
interest in bike lanes parallel to 119.
But anyway, there was a lot of support for this project up there, and I'd hate to see that go away.
I'd be in favor of using FISA reserves to fund that gap and to keep those projects moving. If we
had that cash available and we can provide that service that folks rely on-- some rely on it with
all their livelihoods-- I think that's what we should do and that's what we should work for.
Not in favor of truncating it. I think we want to possibly provide more certainty. Even as
uncertain as things are, at least there's something out there that shows what our priorities are in
the future years. So I'm also not in favor of passing a two-year MTFP. I'd rather have the full sixyear. Even if we have to renew it every year, at least it gives some indication of what our
priorities are to our current and potential partners. I hope that helps.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll try and be brief. I don't have a lot to add
some great discussion following a good presentation by our staff. I always appreciate that.
Weighing in on the FISA especially, the core, the historical FISA, it maybe a reserve, but it's
more than a cash fund. It's more than a reserve.
It's really the only substance to those folks that haven't received what we promised them in 2004.
It's a pledge. It's basically saying, we still have these projects on the map and we certainly need
the ability to match if the time comes that that happens.
So I just find the FISA, symbolically, very important, but I understand the temptation. I'm not all
that fond of taking new FISA funds either, but to Director Lubow's point, I guess I can live with
that. Tough times call for tough decisions.
I agree with the several directors, including most recently my colleague, Director Walker. The
119 project, I just hate to see it out of the window that it was in, and pushing it out to '27, '28, it
doesn't work for me.
We spent a lot of time, whether it's strategic planning or conversations with staff talking about
local partnerships, trying to really build trust, working together as corporate governmental
entities and private entities to finish projects. And when we're down the road-- no pun intended-with CDOT and the locals and then we push it out a year or two more, I just don't think that
bodes well, and we need to do what we can to keep it in that '27 or under mix I think.
The two-year financial plan, I'm fine with that. I could go either way. I certainly understand
Director Walker's points on that. But it's such a strange and unique time. I think our constituents
will understand that the two-year window may be more appropriate to give us more flexibility
and to look and see what happens, especially in early '22. I think '21 is going to be quite a year,
but maybe we'll see some directional changes in '22 and on into '23.
One minor question. A little project, but it was mixed in with all these and it's very important to a
lot of folks-- the electric bus. I don't know if that was a pilot program, but that program could be
delayed, according to Heather, but she said it could be delayed only for so many months or years.
How long do we have to take advantage of that plan, because I know there's matching money
from VW and somebody else, and that's kind of important. Heather, do you know how long that
could be delayed?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I need to check in on-- I'll ask Bill Van Meter if he knows, but I don't
think we could go past 2022. We could probably ask. We've already asked for it to be deferred to
2021 already so that we could do our due diligence and researching that. And so that's why we
did not take it out in the deferred projects, just because there's so much money associated with
the grant there.

I don't know if Bill has anything else to add, but I think we would be hard-pressed to do anything
past 2022, and that even might be iffy. But I'll let Bill can we weigh on that, if he has anything
else to add.
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM of Planning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, Heather hit it. There's a deadline of September 2022 for one of the
grants. There has been, of course, because of COVID, some flexibility. So I'm not certain that I
could represent that as a hard and fast deadline, but that is the current deadline on the grant
agreement for committing those funds.
TROY WHITMORE: OK, thank you. Thank you, Bill. That's all I've got, Madam Chair. Thanks
for the time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams, you have the
floor.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. One of the hard parts about going last is that
listening to everybody else brings a lot of questions to mind, so just bear with me for just a
minute. The State Highway 119 project, I have a question.
Heather, that's part of deferred capital projects or deferred maintenance, or where does that fall?
Not under service cuts, right? Anybody? Bill? Heather?
BILL VAN METER: You're on.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sorry. There was a delay there. So this is Heather McKillop.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So you're correct. A standalone capital project is not in our asset
management list that we're funding at 70% in 2022 through 2026 because it is a new capital
project, not replacement or maintenance of existing assets.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, Heather. And thank you for this presentation. I appreciate
all the work that goes into it. Doesn't mean I like a lot of it, but I appreciate it.
And I have a couple of points that I want to make. So we are proposing to defer that, along with
some other-- we have a lot of capital projects that we are going to have problems with, like roofs
on our buildings and maintenance on our buses and not moving forward with electric vehicles,
even though we know that that's the future.

And I have a couple of quotes from earlier in the meeting-- Director Mihalik saying how about
the fellow who died broke with a mattress full of cash and Heather McKillop saying that we have
that money sitting there. So the FISA, by its name, is a savings account.
And in the place that we live now, not touching the FISA is kind of like me saying, I'm not
paying Xcel Energy and they can just turn the power off, but I'm not taking any money out of my
savings account. Not happening. And that's what we're saying to people in my district who have
their bus service cut. We can't touch our savings account, but sorry, you can't get a bus ride.
And it's a savings account, people. And I understand that it's savings toward building a train to
Boulder that the governor is very committed to. But right now, I'm not interested in what we're
committed to, building a $1.5 billion train. I'm interested in giving people transportation today-people who need to get to work, people who need to get to the doctor.
I don't have any children in Colorado and I'm never going to have any children in Colorado, but I
pay school taxes. So how about if everybody doesn't have any kids? Stops paying school taxes.
That's the same analogy to people in the north part who don't have their train. I get they don't
have their train and they're paying, but I don't have any kids in school and I have to pay school
taxes just the same.
And if the school system said to me, I'm sorry, but we don't have enough room for your kid in
the class because we have to hold onto our savings account, I would have a problem with that. So
I am not in favor of cutting service but keeping the FISA intact.
And then I have another funny one and then I'll shut up. I was interested in Director Menten's
comment about de-annexing out of RTD. What if Denver, the city and county of Denver, deannexed out of RTD? Just something to think about. OK, that's all I have to say. Thank you,
Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you Director Williams. I'm going to go back to
some directors and asked to speak again. This has been a great conversation. But starting with
Director Broom, do you have anything you'd like to add, now that you've everybody speak?
BOB BROOM: Oh, maybe a couple of things. Thank you for calling on me. On reducing the
length of the capital budget, I've got mixed emotions about that. I think that's just good fiscal
policy, to have a long-term capital budget.
Just because it's hard to make it work doesn't mean you don't do something to make it work,
because that's your roadmap going forward. And sure, it may be changed next year, but it's still a
long-term roadmap and people can look to it to see where the 119 project is, and that type of
thing.
The 119 project brings the question to mind, is what happens if we get a bill? We don't have the
money to operate any additional buses on it. So we put additional capital investment in
something that we can't operate unless we cut service somewhere else in the system. We need to

have some feel for what's the magnitude of the cost of the operations after that capital project
opens.
On the FISA reserve, I think it's prudent to keep it the way it is. It serves purposes. It keeps our
faith with the people up north, and it's also a reserve in case we get another really bad round of
the virus and have to make additional cuts. It provides a place where we can draw on money to
keep our services up for an additional period of time. Those, I guess, are my additional thoughts.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Cook, I have you down as
wanting to make some additional comments. You have the floor.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you for coming back to us. I took that first round to be only questions,
so I appreciate the chance to weigh back in. OK, so on the FISA, Bob Broom really said it well.
I'm fine with forgoing the contributions to it, but we had already gone below not just the threemonth reserve goal, but now are below the two-month reserve and are at four or six weeks,
depending.
And that's uncomfortable to me. And the only thing that makes it work is that FISA account. As
Heather had noted, that's considered a cash balance that we can tap in an emergency. And in fact,
when we were looking at 256 million or something as a shortage, it just seemed like we would
have to do that. But now let's keep that for both reasons he cited, to keep faith with the people up
north and then also as that cushion that we badly need, given all the uncertainties going forward.
Second thing is deferring the projects. Yeah, let's not do that here, especially not now since the
outlays aren't programmed for another couple of years. I would like to make sure that we're
doing everything-- we're eyeballing it with the idea of a possible infrastructure bill to make sure
that that project, and any others, that we maximize chances for eligibility, in the case that comes
up in the next in the next Congress.
And on the two-year, I didn't get a chance to talk to Heather McKillop to find out kind of the
implications, but I've always known that you generally want to look to the longer timeframe as a
way to see the impacts of decisions you make today and to spot trends and have a window long
enough to respond to them. So generally speaking, I like the longer.
But in this case, we've got such an unusual circumstance with just amazing range as possible.
And in some ways, that renders those outyears less meaningful. So what I'd say is fine for right
now, but let's visit sooner than just a year from now. And also, in the meantime, continue to
model, even if we're not adopting, but continue to model the implications of our decisions now
over that five- or six-year term. Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Because this issue is of such great importance, I'm
going to go through the list again, and if you want to pass, pass. But if there's something burning
you need to ask, I'd ask for you to do that. So I'm going to go to the First Vice Chair Catlin. Do
you have any additional comments or questions?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. Is it possible that I try to recap a little bit,
and then maybe they can respond to my recap?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That, I think, would be great. I do have Director-- Secretary
Buzek. Is that good with you, Secretary?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Please, Ms. McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I think with what I've heard, there are mixed emotions on using the
balance in the reserve, or the balance of the FISA, and I understand that. I think it's pretty evenly
split, depending on how people feel. But I think with the information that I have, my
understanding is that there is concerns about the use of leaving only a month in reserves, and I
can work to see if I can fix that a little bit.
I think that if we did defer the maintenance facility, which, at this time with the reductions and
service that we're at already, we probably do not need that facility in the near term. Also, the
Burnham Yard, we've heard, is really up in the air.
So I would look at deferring those two projects and try to keep State Highway 119. I have
consistent feedback about being able to use the additional contributions as projects close, et
cetera, to offset the FasTracks shortfalls, and I think I heard pretty much concurrence on that.
I would offer up that I go ahead and do a balanced six-year plan for the middle next week for the
15th. And then if the Board would like to amend that to a two-year plan, then you're able to do
that. But you're able to see what the six-year plan would look like and then make a decision
based on that, whether you want to do two years or not.
Maybe that's a good compromise so that people can see the six, and if they're not feeling
comfortable with that, they could amend it to something less than that. That's what I would throw
out there, and I'd be glad to hear additional discussion and comments from the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms. McKillop. First Vise Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair, and Heather, thank you for that recap. I think that
about captures it. I was persuaded by Director Walker when he suggested that, perhaps, if we
cannot balance other ways-- I support keeping the 119 project in there, but that if we have to
supplement it through the use of the FISA account, that it might be an appropriate use to keep
that project on track. So thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair, but I think Director Buzek was next.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh. I'm going to put him at the end.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Groovy. OK. It occurs to me we can kind of get lost in time and space and
place on what's going on. So I do appreciate, Heather, your recap and how things look, and I'm
pretty flexible with all of this. But as I was just reflecting, we, RTD, is obligated to finish
FasTracks, all the corridors, which includes the Northwest corridor.
And it isn't a $1.5 billion finish. It's more like $2.2 billion. And it's at least $40 million a mile,
and that was a few years ago. So knowing that-- I think it was in early 2013, we embarked on a
$2.1 million consulting study called the Northwest Area Mobility study-- NAM.
And that report came up with what we could have all expected, that there are these much better,
and perhaps more cost-effective, BRTs, like State Highway 119. And I'm not sure anymore if it
was six BRT routes or eight. But part of the reason we're not going to get any federal grants, like
FFGs, the full-funding grant agreement, for State Highway 119 is because it doesn't fulfill the
definition of the federal guidelines for a BRT. But nonetheless, we're still doing it, and that's
fine.
So if we build all these BRTs, I think it's appropriate for RTD to be off the hook for the
Northwest rail. Otherwise, the north is getting both the rail, and we're going to keep getting
dogged by it, and six or eight BRT lines that we're on the hook for now. So I think it's
appropriate, sometime in the future, to have a very frank conversation with all of our
constituents.
And it may be, like many stakeholders have said, including World Tour, that the BRT is a much
better option for our constituents. And so if that's the case, then we need to have that
conversation about perhaps saying, well, let's do the eight BRTs or the six BRT lanes and forego
the Northwest rail. That's all I have to say, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Treasurer Guissinger, do you have
anything additional?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, just a bit. Yeah. Just Director Folska's comments, I always
encourage sitting down and talking to the parties. I think that a lot of this is about regional equity
and that jumping in one side or the other, or anything else. I think, as Director Lubow said, the
more we sit down and engage and let others help us make these decisions, the better off we are.
I totally agree that keeping the FISA is, I think Director Broom said, it keeps the faith with the
north and it also gives us-- worse comes to worse, which I hope doesn't happen, but the money's
there as a reserve, so it can allow us to go lower on our other reserves.
Heather, in terms of deferring the maintenance facility, it's right now in 2025. And I guess my
understanding was for us to really have operations on BRT on 119, we have to have the
maintenance facility. Is that right?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So that was the case leading up to these current circumstances that
we're in. But with the service levels that we're anticipating over the next couple of years, we
should have sufficient facilities in Boulder now.
If we ramp service up again in that timeframe, yes, we will run into a similar problem and we
will need to look at how we could move that facility or do other things in Longmont, et cetera,
that would help accommodate those additional vehicles. But we think, at this time, that we could
keep 119 in there and move the facility out a bit.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you, that's helpful. And again, a big part of my concern was
119, but it wasn't the only concern in suggesting that we look at two years. I'm looking at the
next week, and the way that Ms. McKillop has suggested-- or whenever that is. Maybe it's in two
weeks.
We will have the model there. It's not like we haven't done the work. But we have a new CEO
coming in and we really are making decisions with very fluid information, so I still think that
looking at passing a two-year is a reasonable way to go. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis, do you have
any additional comments or questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just one comment. I actually agree with you, Director Guissinger, and I
should have said that at the beginning. I do think that the proactive conversations are important,
that we should be engaging our stakeholders, and so I would absolutely encourage us to do that.
I would also absolutely encourage us to really look at spending our FISA because what that
means for our communities is that we are not investing in the transportation needs of our
communities, and that is really, really important to me. And I will keep it short, but I do agree
with you, Director Guissinger. That does require us to have some proactive conversations, and I
am absolutely game to do so.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Dr. Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Thank you for one more chance. Yeah, Director Folska raised an
interesting point, and it seemed to me that each of the applicants for the GM position said that
they would expect a lot of talking with stakeholders about ways forward. And clearly, that's
going to have to be done about FasTracks and how to move forward appropriately and fairly.
But in the meantime, I, for one, would not want to use the corpus of the FISA money for 119 or
anything, other than what it was meant to be for. And I like the idea of the two-year plan for the
reasons stated. Basically, we're in such a fluid time and we're getting a new GM that's going to
want to put her mark on a lot of what's going forward. Anyway, that's it for me. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Director Menten, do you have any additional
comments or questions?
NATALIE MENTEN: I will just chime in, because I did not do this earlier, on shortening our
long-term planning, which would be midterm financial plan. I think our role is strategic policy
position that I don't see the advantage to shortening it. If that should come forward, I could
rethink that, but for right now, I don't see the advantage to us shortening our planning because of
one circumstance. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thanks. It sounds like, Heather, you said that we'll get a chance to choose
whether we want to do the reduced sched-- or reduced budget ride timeframe?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam, this is Heather McKi-- McKillop. Can't even say my own last
name. So yes, I mean, that was my recommendation, is that I bring you a balanced six-year plan,
and then based on that, the Board can make a decision of approving that or they can amend that
to approve something less than that. It is my recommendation to try to give people a little more
chance to see what's in a balanced plan and then make a decision in a couple of weeks.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. 'Cause we have time to figure that out. I guess I don't have anything else
to say.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Regarding State Highway 119 and
reduce of the currently existing place of reserve, because I think we're talking about the fact that
we will not be increasing the FISA reserve, so we're talking about the current plays a reserve.
For purposes of being able to fund the State Highway 119, think what I hear is that that's not in
controversy. Well, almost not in controversy. At least there's one director who has opposed an
objection to that.
But I think that, realistically, it fulfills the spirit of what FasTracks was all about, to get that State
Highway 119 BRT built. There was also a comment about the fact that we could not be looking
at federal funding for State Highway 119 because it does not fit the definition of a fixed,
restricted guideway for that BRT.
As I think most of you know, we are still fighting that battle. I have spoken at APTA about that. I
have spoken with our congressional delegation about that. And we're seeking a change to the
definition of BRT so as to allow the State Highway 119 project to fall within their parameters.

Now, we did meet resistance from the BRT Committee at APTA about that, and-- excuse me-we're still working with them to try to get them to agree with us. Because if they do, then
Congress is more likely to look at a changed definition, where our experience with US 36 at
Flatiron Flyer has proven so positive that you don't actually need a dedicated fixed guideway, but
in fact, can use a shared guideway with certain precautions and protections, as we have put in
place. So there is still at least some hope there.
Relative to the notion of bringing forward a six-year plan and then having the Board determine
whether a possible truncation of that to two or three years, I think that's a good plan. I think that's
wise. As I said, I think it's best, really, an annual plan, but nonetheless, I think that's a good idea.
And there are still a lot of the things that haven't been mentioned tonight that I've spoken about it
with some other directors, relative to other things that we need to be looking at, to assuage some
of the concerns in the north. And I'll just say the peak service rail plan, which we did commit to
exploring and we know is being explored, but will work with our new General Manager to try to
get that into this conversation as well when the time is appropriate. Those are all the comments
that I have at this time. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker, do you have any
additional comments?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I'll try and be quick. So I just want to remind everybody that FISA is not
just for the Northwest rail. There are two projects in District B that have not been filled that were
identified in FasTracks. There's the Southwest extension in District H, the central extension in
District B.
So there are a whole lot of things that if somebody were to come along, some partner were to
come along and say, we want to help build this park that is not Northwest rail, expect a partner,
that project, whichever one is proposed, hypothetically, would be available for funds. So it's not
just for the Northwest rail. Service up there is fantastic, so I'll move into 119. Oh, and if
somebody can find me where the word promise is in FasTracks, I might be tempted to buy that
person dinner at a inexpensive restaurant.
So 119, I'm thankful for Director Folska bringing up the names. We did go through a pretty
extensive process to identify a better bus service up there, and that 119 is part of that. And I think
that it's so good that I can get to downtown Boulder from downtown Denver faster than I can get
to my house, which is a whole lot closer than downtown Boulder is.
I think our mission is to move people, no matter what mode, as long as we're moving people and
providing good service and reliable service, clean, safe, et cetera. And I think that's what's
important. I think the motives of [INAUDIBLE ] is a distant second to moving people.
And then, again, regarding the two-year. I think we always have a fluid situation. We amend our
one-year budget every year. We've done that every year since I've been on the Board. So we
understand that all the money moves and it comes in at different rates and different amounts than
what's expected, sometimes above, a lot of times lower.

But I think that the longer term gives our partners, our potential partners, a glimpse into what
we're thinking of and the types of projects that we need to provide service. And that will give
them an idea about what they might need, if they want to partner with us, whether it's road
improvements or building office buildings somewhere, or shifting employees from one part of
town to another. So those are my comments. Thanks again.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore, do you have anything
additionally?
TROY WHITMORE: No. I promise that I have nothing more to say. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: That's all right. I want my time and choice. No, I have one more thing. I'm
wondering if it's possible that we could survey our constituents, as a whole of the district, and
ask them if they would want us to continue to save money for our 2004 incompleted train
projects at the expense of current service. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And then last but not least, Secretary Buzek.
VANCE BUZEK: Well, thanks, Madam Chair. Appreciate it. I'll talk just briefly about the FISA,
because I've talked about this before and I think everybody knows where I stand on that. And I
kind of think the FasTracks initiative that was passed in 2004 is a promise. Maybe I'm silly.
But it is, and the communities all around the region signed on to that and paid into it. So it's not
just merely that some people call it the governor's train, right? It's everybody's train, the
Northwest rail, or the finishing of the N line. These are projects that were in the FasTracks plan
that haven't been built, and they haven't been built because we spent the money elsewhere. That's
fine, I guess.
But here's what some of those communities did. When they signed on and said you take this 0.4
sales tax for FasTracks, that ate up their ability to increase their sales taxes for things they
wanted to do in their communities. And they've been waiting a long time to get the promised
service. So I would say we need to hang on to that, at least that core of the FISA, in the event
that we can use it as an offset or a match for things that may be coming down the road, in terms
of federal funding. So I'll leave it at that.
The other thing is this two-year midterm financial plan concept. I kind of like the idea of it. It's
kind of like the pause on Reimagine. We paused Reimagine because we're in this some kind of
storm of things going that are unbelievably dynamic and fluid.
One Director said we shouldn't change this because of one circumstance. I don't know if you
want to call a worldwide pandemic a circumstance, but it's not, and it's pretty incredible. We
paused Reimagine because things are so uncertain. And I know other directors have said, we
always live in uncertain times. A rainstorm or a snowstorm are kind of just like a pandemic. I
kind of don't believe that.

So when you put out a six-year plan based on terrible financial projections, that year six looks
really, really terrible, and I don't think it gives you any realistic, reasonable, usable financial data
moving forward. So to shorten that window, that timeframe of the midterm financial plan, gives
you more reasonable data on an ongoing basis.
And I know we can go back and we can adjust a six-year plan every year, but when the public
looks at it and the stakeholders look at year six, holy cow. RTD really doesn't know what they're
doing. We're inviting political acrimony when we do a midterm financial plan based on
honorable data that may be inaccurate tomorrow. So I'll leave it at that. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Well, let me just thank everybody for this conversation
because it has been, really, a good conversation that we need to have and we need to continue to
have. This is our main responsibility, is to make sure that the financial stability of the agency is
intact as we move forward to serve our constituents.
Ms. McKillop, Mr. Ballard, and Ms. McManus, I'm going to ask you to help me because, boy,
we talked about a lot of different things. But the three main issues I'd like to get a straw poll on,
just so that I'm clear-- I think I've written lots of notes.
I'm going to go to every Board Member and ask you for a straw poll Yes or No-- using the FISA
reserves, doing a two-year plan, the budget, and funding, or making sure we move for State
Highway 119. Would that help you, Ms. McKillop?
JUDY LUBOW: This is Judy Lubow. When you say FISA reserves, what are you talking about?
There's two different issues. There's the annual appropriations and then there's the corpus that's
already there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What I'm talking about is this evening we talked about whether
or not we would use FISA reserves for the budget, if we needed it. Am I hearing that correctly or
did I mess that one up completely?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. Madam Chair, there were two different issues. One was using
any additional future contributions, such as project savings, and the other issue that came up
during the conversation was, should we use the existing reserves to offset some of those things?
So I think they are two separate.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. So I'll go through and say, would you be willing
to use-- this is just a straw poll. This is not a vote. Are you thinking you might be interested in
using additional contributions, or secondarily, what's existing?
And then do we want to go to a two-year budget? Are you thinking that? And then State
Highway 119. Does that flow for everybody?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, if I could just clarify. So I think deferring or not
deferring State Highway 119, going from a six-year to a two-year plan, and then do we want to

use any of the existing FISA reserves for anything, including 119 or something else? I think that
can just be, does anybody want to use the existing FISA reserves?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: The existing balance. What's sitting in there, the $119 million.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right, just so that I'm clear, I'm going to ask for a straw
poll on if you're willing to use any existing FISA, right Ms. McKillop?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm sorry, Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If you could help me formulate this again, just so I can go
through and find out. Any FISA?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Right. Use the FISA, going from a six- to a two-year plan adoption,
and keeping State Highway 119.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, those are the three. All right, I'm going to give it a go.
Director Broom, what would you say on the FISA, please?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom, you're muted.
BOB BROOM: On the FISA piece, I would say don't use the corpus.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. What about going from a six- to a two-year?
BOB BROOM: I prefer to have the six-year.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What about deferring 119?
BOB BROOM: I prefer not to unless we have to.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Secretary Buzek?
VANCE BUZEK: Don't use any of the FISA, any.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
VANCE BUZEK: Go to the two-year mid-term financial plan, and do not put off State Highway
119.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would say use the existing FISA as a last resort in order to move forward
State Highway 119. I would say defer any future contributions to the FISA. And I would say that

I'm OK with the two-year plan, as long as we have the information and the modeling of a sixyear plan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. No use of the existing corpus of the FISA. I think most people
signaled they're OK with the contributions, and I would agree with that. I'm OK with the twoyear, but would want to revisit that next year, as things start to settle down. Or at least keep an
eye on those six-year impacts. And if Heather brings forward the model, that would be fine, too.
And then no on deferring 119.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I kind of really like Director Catlin's approach,
but if you're not willing to take the money for State Highway 119 from the FISA account, I
would say defer it. I think we're looking at some really difficult decisions here that have more to
do with moving people and keeping people employed.
And so I would be in favor of using whatever assets we have to do the basic job that we are
tasked to doing, and that is moving people and keeping people employed. You can imagine the
devastation it's going to have on so many different families.
And so if I have a choice between building a bus line that we may not be able to afford to
operate, like we're having a problem right now, I just think it's reckless and irresponsible. So I'm
going to stick with the six-year plan. You look at it in smaller chunks. And actually, I think I'm
going to defer the 119 and I'm going to use FISA. Sorry, guys. That's my answer.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No on using the FISA reserves. No on deferring 119. Yes on going with
the two-year plan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thanks. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I hope you can hear me. I'm having a hard time hearing you all. So I am a
yes on using the FISA. I actually agree with what Director Catlin said, except I would say that
we use the FISA, that be the primary fund we draw from, not the fund that we draw from at the
end. I would probably like to see some more data for the State Highway 119. I'm sorry, I totally
forgot the third one. I'm so sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Two years.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Two years.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, I'm OK with the two years. That's actually where I agree with Director
Catlin, with the two years. I'm OK with the six-year plan, or with the two-year plan, as long as
we have the data for the six years. I'm totally OK with that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And tell me again what you want for 119. You want to
defer it?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I guess if we aren't going to take money from the FISA, I would
absolutely say defer it, but I would also like to see more data.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, got it. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. OK. Don't defer State Highway 119. No on taking money from the corpus
of the FISA. And a yes on reduction of the plan to two years.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Use any part of the FISA that we can. Defer 119, as it does not seem to be
agreed that we would exchange part of the FasTracks for the 119 investment. So defer. And stick
with the six-year.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, I'm probably similar use of FISA. Ideally, it could be used for the 119.
And then I'm agnostic on the two-year or six. I guess Heather will do them both so we're going to
have both.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. And then I'm sorry, I didn't hear about 119. Defer?
KEN MIHALIK: Unless the FISA could be used for that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. OK, thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. In re FISA, I agree to deferring new
contributions on an annual basis to FISA. I agree with the concept of using the corpus of the
existing FISA for construction of the State Highway 119 bus rapid transit line. On the midterm
financial plan, I would prefer a six-year plan.
I would be open to adopting a two- to three-year plan with the notion, as has been stated, that
we'll have a six-year plan or reference point anyway. And regarding State Highway 119, I would
not defer State Highway 119 into 2026 or 2027 or years beyond. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Dr. Walker.

JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I am supportive of using corpus FISA for any gap that needs to be
closed, especially forwarding State Highway 119 BRT. And I support passing a six-year plan,
and definitely having the six-year plan for reference.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TONY WHITMORE: So I guess I still have the hands off approach on the corpus of FISA. I do
not want to defer 119 into another planning period. I may be convinced to use corpus for that, but
I'm not there yet.
And like Director Mihalik, I'm a bit agnostic on the finance plan, but I kind of like the sound of
what Heather had planned for us, kicking the can down two more weeks for us to see the six-year
number, then the two. I'd be willing to look at that two-year, but I do like having the backstop
with the other numbers. That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am about using the corpus of FISA for
anything that we need, including the State Highway 119. I'm about OK with deferring any
additional contributions to the FISA.
I'm OK with the two-year plan, if that's what Heather wants to do. She is the financial expert.
And if she is game for that, we can look at it and change it at any time. So that's it. I think that's
it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: And the Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. I was going to say, and for me, I would be open to using
the FISA to move 119 forward. And I like the two-year plan, but I really feel comforted by
knowing we'll have the six-year plan of action so that we can look at the long-term as well. OK,
Ms. McKillop, there you have it. Does that give you enough information to move forward with?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, it does, Madam Chair. I thank everybody for their very open and
thoughtful conversation tonight. And this is very helpful and we'll be presenting something in the
next couple weeks to you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Could somebody tell us the tallies?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is what I, have and people can correct me if I'm wrong. So there
was a majority of people that were OK with keeping State Highway 119 in but using the existing
FISA, or the corpus it's been called, to fund the State Highway 119. We had six people saying no
to using the existing FISA and the rest saying they were open to using that, particularly if it was
used for State Highway 119.
We had evenly split on six years versus two years, with four or five people saying they'd like to
see the six year, but it might be willing to adopt a two, as long as we have a six-year in the wings
for people to look at and keep track of. And only four people deferring State Highway 119.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, so now I don't have anything else. Mr. Ballard,
do you have any closing comments or is your staff complete with [AUDIO OUT]?
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, thank you for asking. This has been extremely helpful to all
of us on the SLP tonight by hearing these open and frank discussions during this work study. We
very much appreciate everyone's participation. We've taken careful notes and we will move
forward from here. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Are there any other matters to come before this
Board? OK, hearing none, and we have no other business to address, this study session is
adjourned. And I have 7:37. So thank you all for participating and have a good evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Good night.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good night.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you and good night.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good night.

