2020-11-18 Ad Hoc Safety and Security 4

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to go ahead and call the Security and Safety Ad Hoc Committee to
order. It is Wednesday, November 18. It is now 8:07 AM.
I would like to thank you all for participating this morning and would like to apologize. We're trying a new
platform to include public comments, and so we are having the public call in on this same number. So
what I'd like to do is, first of all, take roll call. Director Williams? Director Williams, are you on the line?
Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Guissinger? Director Williams, you there?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am still there in the old meeting, and all I can do is-- it's not letting me exit.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Guissinger?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I have 203-299-2663. Well, then it says press the extension. And I press 1.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's as far as I can get.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And it doesn't ask you to put in the code?
KATE WILLIAMS: Nope. I'm going to do it again.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Because I just got in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then hit pound. OK, I'm going to try this again. Director Williams, are
you on?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not yet.
KATE WILLIAMS: No. That's all I can-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis is on. Is Director Guissinger on?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. And Director Walker will be late. Mr. Meader, are you on?
MICHAEL MEADER: I am here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief Grado?
ROBERT GRADO: I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE:Deputy Chief Martingano?
STEVEN MARTINGANO: I'm here, thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McManus is on. Marisela, are you on?
MARISELA QUIROZ: Yes, good morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning, how are you?
MARISELA QUIROZ: I'm fine. How are you, Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm good. Thank you so much.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Who else is joined, please?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
DAVE JENSEN: Mr. Jensen is on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Jensen. Our General Manager, Debra Johnson, are you on?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McManus, do we know what that sound is?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Someone's not muted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If everybody could please mute your phones, and then only speak when
you're called on. General Manager Johnson, are you on the phone?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I am here, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to go ahead and call the meeting to order again. I'm so sorry about
the technology, but I think we'll get through this together. It is now 8:12 AM.
And I think that on the safety moments, Mr. Meader, I'm going to ask you to do a safety moment for us,
please.
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. Yeah, I think as everyone has seen on the news, we're at an all-time high
from a COVID transmission rate right now, certainly in community transmission. The Governor just
recently moved us to a higher level on the dial. They've added an additional level, not wanting to shut
down the economy and just shut things down, but there are quite a few restrictions that have been placed
on restaurants, and bars, and gymnasiums, and those kinds of things, and on people as well.
The biggest thing, I think, everyone needs to be reminded of is this is being spread because of large
gatherings of people who do not live together. So just really, really-- I can't emphasize this enough, and I
know we've heard this a million times. And the COVID fatigue has set in a long time ago, but it's so
critically important right now that you wear your face coverings whenever you're out and about, maintain
social distancing, wash your hands just as often as you can think of doing it, make sure you're not
hanging out in crowds with people who you just don't know what their behaviors and their habits are.
And unfortunately, with Thanksgiving coming up, really, really try to keep down the number of people.
What they're saying is celebrate the holidays with people from your own household. Be virtual as much as
possible.
I can tell you Zoom has taken off all the limits of conversations. They had capped it at 40 minutes. It's
unlimited now.
So if you need to see each other, just to be safe, try to do it virtually. This is really, really important. We're
way beyond the limits that the CDC and Colorado set for when we should be staying at home.
And if we all just take accountability, do the things we need to do, we can turn this around, and we can
start heading in the other direction. So it behooves you to just really, really follow the directions that are
provided by public health right now. I encourage you to do that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. This is now our public participation period. And I would like
to ask everyone to be patient with us, because we're trying this new platform out.
So what I'd like to do, originally I could say press star three. That's not going to work this morning. What
I'd like to do is ask people, if they're on the line, and from the public, and would like to speak, if you would

first please tell me your name so I can put everyone down, and then I'll go back and call you for three
minutes. Anyone on the line who'd like to speak to the ad hoc committee?
Hearing none, then I think we can go on with our agenda. Thank you so much. What I'd like to do now is
have a discussion and questions from Directors regarding the proposed reorganization that was
presented last week. Any Directors, please?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a few questions about this process. So the documents that are in our agenda
pack, I guess I'm having a hard time understanding what folks would respond to, because we aren't
including the documents that we are going over within our agenda packets. And so there isn't ample
opportunity for review, nor for folks to respond in the event that they would be interested in this topic. And
so I'm curious how we are going to move forward with public comment and with getting those documents
in the hands of Directors prior to-- not only hands of Directors, but in the hands of the public prior to this
meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So, Director Lewis, I know that we did receive the reorganization stuff last
week from Mr. Meader and Chief Grado. But I'm hearing you say, that when the agenda goes out, if it
could include all of those items so that we could review them. And they could be in the public document
that everybody sees so that they could respond to it. Is that correct what I'm hearing?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Exactly. Just a reminder, when we receive those documents, we receive them during
the meeting. And then I'm not even sure what follow-up existed to get those documents in the hands of
the public. So I think we might have the phases-in reorg, but I don't know what outreach has been done to
get that into the hands of the public, because we received that via email.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Duly noted. I would agree. It would be so helpful to have all of those pieces
on the agenda, rather than just the agenda but within the package, to have those components to it. Yeah,
so I agree on that. And did you get a chance to read it since you got it sent to you?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, I did read it. I just had a question about how we engage the public in it, because it
came to me via email. So I was just wondering what our avenues were to get it out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, duly noted. And I really would like to respectfully request that
anything that comes forward for the Accountability Committee for the agenda be put on the agenda in the
packet so that it can be distributed both to the Board members as well as the public. So, yes.
MICHAEL MEADER: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, sir?
MICHAEL MEADER: I thought that that was attached. I'm going back and looking in my email when I sent
the proposed agenda. This item, I thought, was attached to it, because this was put together right after
the last meeting.
If for some reason I didn't, I'll try to identify that. I apologize. That was fully my intent. And if it didn't go
out, then that's my fault.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is not on there. So, yes, thank you so much, if we could do that.
MICHAEL MEADER: I will make sure that that occurs.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Any other comments from any Board members. Director
Williams?
MARISELA QUIROZ: So she's he's having issues. She said that she's not able to dial in still.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I got the document last week and looked at it, and I think it's very good. I
think you're doing some good stuff. I am interested in some of the things that I think Director Lewis has
raised before, which it's kind of what-- she's asked me to the data behind it. And I know that we're getting
lots of calls.
But I'm just wondering, I think at some point you all said that the incidents have gone up after post-COVID
as we got into this pandemic kind of. Just if there's an incident report that sort of shows that. I don't
believe we've seen that yet. I would be interested in that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And, Chief Grado, if we could talk to you a little bit about the data that is
being requested on an ongoing basis. Can you just talk a little bit about that?
ROBERT GRADO: Sure. Yeah, actually I had a conversation yesterday, actually a couple of
conversations now, with Director Lewis about this. Our problem is mining the data that you want to see.
What we have right now, our CAD and our records management system, it just puts out raw numbers. We
do not have the ability to go in and mine that data with specific questions in mind, if that makes sense.
And our issue is there's so much, between 4,000 and 5,000 calls per month, that we're handling, it's
difficult.
So I guess what we would need to know if there's specific questions around that data. I know talking to
Director Lewis, some of her questions, we just don't have the capability, unfortunately, to get that. So the
information you're getting with the increases in crime is based holistically on a big data dump, if you will.
So that's a tough one for us. And part of our reorg request is to have a crime analysts on board that would
have the ability to go in there and extract that. And then also, through this process, again, what we're
asking for is to get started.
We will have-- this whole process through 2021 will have public participation and input as we build this
out. Really, as I said last week, the ask right now for the internal capabilities is solely because we're going
to be shrinking or reducing the amount of actual security officers out there and just giving us that
response capability. So hopefully, I've answered your question. But this is just the beginning. The ask is
to get started on this process.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ROBERT GRADO: I hope that answered your question. Is there some more specific?
MICHAEL MEADER: And I think-- Chief, this is Mike Meader. We do track-- when we receive the calls, as
the Chief said, the CAD is our Computer Aided Dispatch system. It's our records management system, if
you will.
And we are able to track the type of calls, so based upon the resolution where we talked in the very first
meeting about the violent crimes being up. So we do track that and holistically have that kind of
information that we use to try to better allocate the resources that we have in those specific areas or
specific times, and those kinds of things, if we see some trends. I think some of the other data that
Director Lewis was looking for and what not is specifically the people that are involved and the contacts
that we have-- what are some of the demographic breakdowns of that information. And that part is
challenging, a really challenging part.
We also have one of the ideas here of getting more law enforcement folks on the street. And when I say
more, that doesn't mean in addition to what we have, but transitioning that allocation of people, is that
they are able to ask questions and get information people that an armed merchant guard is not allowed to

ask for. So that's going to help us gather better information when we're [AUDIO OUT] resolution to these
calls and these encounters.
So this reorganization is inherently going to help us gather a little bit better information as well. But the
analyst is a really critical piece of this to be able to kind of pull that information. They have access to
some other things that can give us a more holistic picture of what's happening both in our system and
right around our system. Because oftentimes, what's happening around our system becomes part of
what's happening on our system.
ROBERT GRADO: So Mike, if I can add-- that you for that input, that that helped a lot-- so Senate Bill 217
that is in effect right now changed a few things, too, for law enforcement. One of the things is when a law
enforcement officer has a contact with somebody in the public, they have to do what we call a field
interview card. It basically looks like a recipe card.
So they fill that out, and part of that is getting some of those demographics. There's some boxes that you
check in there. And that is reported to the state once a year per Senate Bill 217.
So our police officers are getting that data. However, security officers don't have-- they're not required to
report. And honestly, they're not allowed to even ask for an ID. If someone provides that, it's strictly
voluntarily.
So again, this reorg gives us the ability to be much better at this process. And I'll circle back and just
repeat, this is not an expansion request. I think there's some confusion there. Every time we hire a police
officer, there's going to be a reduction on the other side on the security officer side. And in many cases,
it's more than one.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I got that pretty clearly. Director Guissinger, do you have any other
questions? Or does that answer the questions you might have?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That answered one of them. And I'm interested in-- I don't know if this is the right
time in terms of what your direct question was here-- but in the timeline for changing our conductors over
to ambassadors, and our TSOs. I know we've done that on the N Line, people not carrying guns. How
long will that take? And are we moving forward with, what I think is the Chair's great idea of, training
operators for some of those jobs?
ROBERT GRADO: This is Bob again. If I can start, and then I think Dave Jensen can help circle back on
that part. But I just want to say that we're ready anytime.
It is going to be a process. Like I mentioned, we're very careful through the hiring process here who we're
hiring. We're really seeking out public servants and not folks that want to just-- I won't go there.
But anyways, so that is going to be a process for us. And we spoke about the training requirements and
all that. So it's a slow process.
But we still have our security officers to supplement us through this process. And then we also have the
ability. We have the IGAs with these cities. So we can add contracted police officers to backfill that.
But the plan is, whenever the RTD as a whole is ready to roll into that type of program, our thought was
we would take some of the funding that's already allocated through the current TSO enforcement program
and move that over to rail operations to fund that piece. And I'll stop talking so Dave can jump in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, good morning. This is Dave Jensen. So the latest update that I've gotten is that we
do have the job descriptions written. We are moving in that direction.

The initial goal was to really be about done by end of the year. But because of everything the agency is
going through right now, that's been slowed a little bit. I think a realistic goal for us to be completed, and
have it all in place, and operating with the first quarter for sure, I think it's realistic for us to say that we are
starting the process by the beginning of the year.
And really, the logistics of it that's slowing us down is getting everything through HR. We'll have to vet the
process. We have to vet the job descriptions.
We'll have to post. We'll have to interview. We'll have to hire. We'll have to train.
And so that that takes time. But the process itself is in place, and the process is moving. It's just taking us
a little bit longer, I think, to get everything done the way we want.
And like Bob said, we're making decisions. We can do this faster. We can do it right, and our decision
really is to do it right and make sure that we've got the right people in place.
So in terms of having other employees move into those positions, once those positions become available,
then the employees that might be part of the reduction certainly would be able to put in for it. But then
we'll have to make a decision about who we're hiring. And so the number we're looking at right now is
about 28 conductors. And so that would be the total number [AUDIO OUT] when we get some insight on
where we're at right now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much.
ROBERT GRADO: Let's also not lose sight that we do have the current contractor in place that already
has this program as well. So if we needed to move quicker and supplement that way, we do have that
ability.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So currently, we have 12 transit ambassadors, correct, on in N Line? Am I
making that number up, or is that correct?
ROBERT GRADO: I think it's 18 to cover all the shifts, and days off, and so forth.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then if we are hiring 28 conductors, then the Allied Security number
would go down by 28 positions. Is that correct as well?
ROBERT GRADO: Correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, cool.
ROBERT GRADO: And again, they can be employees or we can convert some of Allied staff as well. So
we have flexibility.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Guissinger, does that-LYNN GUISSINGER: That's all I have for now. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is Director Walker on the line?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, but-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair, this is Director Williams. I am here by phone now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. Do you have any questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: I do not. I appreciate the fact that we are looking to do it the right way. I greatly
appreciate Mr. Jensen's attitude about it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, so we've heard from Director Lewis, Director
Guissinger, Director Williams. Director Walker, are you on the line?

JEFF WALKER: Yes. Can you hear me OK?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
JEFF WALKER: I'm sorry. I just got back and then just sat down. I don't have enough to have any
questions right now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, I heard you. Did you have any additional
comments or questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I didn't get an opportunity to comment on the plan. I just had an opportunity to
comment on the public comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And so if I could take some time here? Oh, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I have had a number of conversations with folks internally about the data, and
actually very specific data, as Director Guissinger has pointed out, so which data we received. And I think
the fundamental question that I've asked on these meetings is, what information has staff used to inform
them presenting this plan as it is? And it's my understanding-- and correct me if I'm wrong. It's my
understanding that they'd really like to move from these contracted services to having more oversight as
an agency and liability as an agency with building out the RTD police force, or security force, or maybe a
combination of both.
And so I think that's the data point I was really hoping was. Maybe if there are concerns or themes that
come up with our contractors, that could be presented to the Board. And Chief Grado gave me a pretty
good explanation. I just want to give this background information for folks. Chief Grado gave me a pretty
good explanation as to what really is going on behind the scenes with that data and the inability of the
agency to get that.
Mr. Meader mentioned that the data that I was really looking for was demographic data-- so race, age,
sex, et cetera, et cetera, gender. And I would think we would have access to this data, because I've seen
us slice our ridership data by demographic. Do we not do that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief or Mr. Meader?
ROBERT GRADO: Not-- this is Bob Grado. We do not do that on our end, no. I'm not sure if there's some
other group here at RTD that does that, but we do not do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: And maybe it might be in planning, but I've seen data that could tell me, generally, that
58% of our ridership is male or female, 72% is white. We don't have any of that kind of data in terms of
our ridership? We don't know any of that?
MICHAEL MEADER: Director Lewis, this is Mike Meader. Actually, they do through surveys, in talking
with people, and a lot of those kinds of things, get a glimpse, as well as observational data, of who's
actually boarding our vehicles and who's riding gives us a sense. Certainly, that.
They use some community demographic data as well. They kind of extrapolate some of that information.
The information I think, and correct me if I'm wrong, I understand you're looking for is specific to the
interactions that our security or police officers have within individuals.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
MICHAEL MEADER: And so, yeah, we would need to have people who can ask those questions and
record that information in order for us to capture that without having someone standing around every

place we have one of these things observing those. And that's the issue with the roles and
responsibilities. Who's doing it, an armed security guard versus a law enforcement officer?
So we will be able to gather that data better. It is a different collection. It's a different, obviously, approach
to doing that. It's not a specific interaction. It's an overall survey observation about that where we get the
ridership data. So it is a little different.
I think it's possible. Obviously, as we make this transition, that's going to help. It's possible that we might
be able to include in some of the surveys the people that we ask in terms of interactions that they have,
but it wouldn't be specific to the specific interactions based on service calls doing those surveys. I think
you understand that, but we want to get there.
We want to understand. We want to have better data to understand what's happening where, and the
trends, who's impacted, all of that information. And this is a step towards getting to that point of collecting
better information like that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But Chief, Mr. Meader, just a follow-up question on that. Do you have your
security folks, whether they are officers, or an ambassador, or whatever, do a contact sheet to maybe
just, as a report at the end of the day, I made this many contacts, and 10 of them were females, 10 were
males-- whatever it is, the demographic piece of it-- just so that you know how many contacts you've
made in a given day and who've they contacted? And was this a ticket violation? Was this blah, blah,
blah, blah, blah? Do you have any kind of document like that that is used in your system?
MICHAEL MEADER: Steve, can you speak to that?
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Yeah, we have a contact sheet that tells how many people they've contacted, if
they paid fare or not. We do not have it broken down by demographics. But like I said, the issue we have
is the security officer could do a lot that we could ask of them, but if the passenger doesn't want to answer
anything on their own, they don't need to. And what we don't want is assumptions. I don't want somebody
putting down that they felt this person was this gender.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, correct, but you could put a box-- yeah, I'm sorry. But you could put a
box that says something to the effect that the customer chose not to relinquish any further information.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Well, and we do do that. Yeah, we do that. There is a section called mitigating,
and the mitigating section is where somebody doesn't even want to talk to them or give them any
information. So we capture that data.
I think we try to explain that on those Board reports on how the numbers are a little skewed in regards to
how many citations we actually write or warnings compared to the actual contact. There is a way. And I'm
trying to work with the force. And obviously, we're subjected to their workload in regards to that.
But there is boxes on the citations that are checked for demographics, and we're trying to get a collection
on that. And we're waiting for an answer if they're able to give us that. Because again, that's a court
document, so we do have to write down white, unknown, stuff of that nature, just in case. I've been able to
extract that on our end, and we're working with the contractor for our records management to try to get us
that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I don't want to put words in Director Lewis's mouth, but it seems to me
that that's kind of what we're looking for in terms of when you guys do presentations to the Board, that we
could have maybe a compilation of how many people have been contacted and that basic information-tickets, whatever-- just so that we have that information. Director Lewis, is that kind of getting to what
you're thinking?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I think fundamentally I just want to understand how we arrived at the answer.
And then when I say this answer, I just mean this plan. So that's exactly right. Thank you.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Sure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, all right, thank you. And any other comments?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I'll keep it brief, because I did have the opportunity to chat. But to Director
Guissinger's question, we had had conversations. This was way back when-- Mr. Ballard, myself, Mr.
Meader, and Heather, where-- or Ms. McKillop, excuse me, Heather-- where we had talked about
potentially being able to move from armed to unarmed within our current security contract, which would
require a card no change to the agreement that's currently in place. And so it sounds like we're talking
about at least the question that was asked and the question that was answered are different.
Because we don't have to wait until those job descriptions are completed before we could actually have a
conversation about that card no change within the contract. And in fact, if my memory serves me
correctly, and keep me honest, Mr. Meader, I recall that we are paying $34 per hour for our current
security as armed security, and we would pay about $25 to $27 if we can move those from armed security
to conductors, and that would include fringe benefits. And so we could actually make that change within
our system pretty immediately, from my understanding. But if DAP could respond to that, I would
appreciate it.
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. This is Mike Meader. You're right, Director Lewis, that is the conversation and
the discussion that we had.
As AGM Jensen was explaining, we do have some requirements from an HR perspective to get those job
descriptions. We go through an analysis of salary for the market. We go through the Equal Employment
Opportunity Civil Rights process to evaluate impact and those kinds of things. And all of that stuff is in the
process of going.
From the standpoint of the contract with Allied Universal, we have had some comments or some
conversations already with them about this. And obviously, we moved on the N line. They were very
amenable to doing that, to begin that process.
So really, we're kind of filling a lot of what the RTD requirements are right now to get ourselves in a
position to start doing that hiring. But we do still, as an organization, need to make that decision. Is this
going to be something that we're going to look to Allied Universal to provide? Or are we going to bring
that in-house as an RTD employee?
And that will make a difference potentially on the contracted piece of this. So once we get those decisions
made and we have kind of checked those other boxes, we fully intend to move forward very quickly with
those conversations and get this moving. This is something that is a high priority for us.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you so much.
ROBERT GRADO: You guys mind if I chime in there?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, go ahead.
ROBERT GRADO: So I think going to an unarmed model as a full, I would not recommend that. As far as
the fare enforcement portion goes, I'm supportive of that. Talking to our peer agencies, I called several,
and none of them said they use unarmed security, but a lot of them use the unarmed for the fare
enforcement, obviously.
But the thing is too, here's where we've got to be careful. If you do go into an unarmed type of position,
it's entry level. You're not going to get the same quality.

In the armed positions, they have a lot more training. The firearms, the licensing, is more difficult with the
city. They train with less lethal options, and de-escalation training, use of force training. We require them
to have law enforcement, military police, corrections experience, these things.
It's a bigger ask for the armed. And my opinion-- and I really think it's something that we should get good
input from the public, because the feedback we get is that the majority of people do want an armed
presence. But down the road, this is, again, a long process, five-year process to get there at the end, but
my goal and my vision is to have armed security and facilities at Union Station, at Civic Center, and
supplementing the police services for our ridership.
So we're open. We're open to anything, but my thought, the whole reason behind this is I personally feel
like the security contract has got so big. Again, we're over 300 armed security officers.
If we have a smaller presence that's observing reporting there for customer service, but they are armed if
we have an emergency, there's someone within the facility that can respond to an active shooter, or
something, some bad scenario. Let's be real. We've had two of, I'd say, Allied Security officers killed here
in Denver in the last three years by armed people. And then we had another individual that tried to shoot
an officer, and they were able to return fire and stop that. So there's some-- let's be real. We have armed
people walking around on the streets out there, and occasionally we have them on our system.
SHONTEL LEWIS: If I could just respectfully interrupt you.
ROBERT GRADO: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And the reason is because I wanted to offer a point of clarity. When I spoke about that
cardinal change, I was speaking specifically for fair enforcement, so armed security for fare enforcement,
and so I should have clarified that. But I also think to this point about founding our decisions in the most
scary things that happen in our society, I don't know if that's a good tactic, which is why I've asked for the
data so that folks understand that this is coming from an informed step and based on research of the
studies of other agencies. And so I should have-- so it sounds like those two things were conflated and
not intentionally. I should have clarified that I meant unarmed for fare enforcement specifically.
ROBERT GRADO: OK, we agree then. And really and truly, everybody knows I don't make knee-jerk
decisions. Me, personally, I like to be very slow and methodical as we do this and make good decisions.
But these are all discussions that I want to have ongoing, and we'll get the right people on the right level
of protection in each place. But I agree. I don't think you need to have an armed person on vehicle
second fare. It's not necessary.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, and then I'll just wrap-up with the recommendations. And you'll hear this for the
second time, Chief Grado, and many of you for the first time. I just hope as we are-- your question was,
can we move this forward to the Board. And one of the concerns that I have is that it hasn't been very
inclusive of a wide variety of stakeholders, particularly folks with lived experiences.
And so one of the requests that I have moving forward is, if we could create a workgroup of some sort
that is comprised of a myriad of stakeholders who could really massage this phased approach-- and also,
that's my first ask-- and co-create this with staff and with our Board to continue to have these
conversations so that, to your point, Chief Grado, that you're not having to make knee-jerk decisions, but
you are doing that in tandem and in partnership with a wide variety of stakeholders. And I think one
demographic of folks who is really important to me that we haven't had conversations with are our
operators. Our operators talk about safety and security pretty often, and we have yet to define that.

And so I hope that through that phased approach that their experiences, needs, and wants are reflected
in the different phases of that. So that's the first one, is to have that work group. The second is to make
sure that our operators are included in conversations around this phase approach.
And then the third thing is I'd love to see some assurances within this plan to ensure that we are going to
co-create this with community and some of the things that we talked about offline. So we talked about
diversity recruiting for our officers. We talked about training.
We talked about building a vision for community policing and its absence of this reorganization. And so I
would really like to see some assurances built into this plan so that if this were to be approved, that we're
not working on the backend or behind, to ensure that community is included and that this is truly a
community policing vision, but we have it ingrained in the plan moving forward prior to this coming to the
Board. That would be my ask. And then just getting this out to community, which it sounds like we might
talk about later this afternoon.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you, Directors. I'm sorry, go ahead, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a couple of questions for Director Lewis. When you talk about
creating a working group that's inclusive, who do you see on that group?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, so I'm glad you asked that question. I could say it looks very similar to the work
that you did, Chair, with the code of conduct. So I could see folks with lived experience.
I could see folks around our libraries, from MHCD. I could see operators, riders, really up folks from our
clergy-- just a really diverse set of folks who could help us to massage this and flesh this out some more.
And I'm happy to send you some models that I've seen from other transit agencies-- you and to other
Directors and to staff-- some models from other transit agencies-- although, I think Chief Grado is
probably familiar-- where they've done a great job of finding those cross-section of folks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would appreciate it if you did send it to the whole committee. I think I would
really like to see that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure, I'm happy to share.
ROBERT GRADO: This is Bob again. I just want to say I wholeheartedly support this idea. At the end of
the day, we work for the public. We work for RTD.
We'll take whatever direction we're given. And for me, it's more about support for our officers. As we
move forward with this program and it is expanded, I would hope by having all this involvement that we
would have complete support from the people around us.
That's my goal. If we go out on our own island and do our own thing, it's never a good thing. And then I'll
just speak quickly.
Director Lewis, and Steve, and I, and Kimberly Ford, we had some discussion. Our ultimate goal is to find
ways to become a more diverse-- we're very diverse on the security side. But as we hire out these police
officers is to find ways to recruit people, whether it be through scholarship programs or cadet programs.
There's different ways we can do this, but that's a whole other meeting and another discussion.
But the ultimate goal is to do that. I always say, transit has every flavor of life on it. If it exists, we're
seeing it out there. And I just kind of want to look the same way through our law enforcement model. So
we have opinions, and again, support from everyone.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair? Chair, hello?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Williams. Please?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. I haven't figured out how to raise my hand on the phone. I just wanted to
make sure-- and I'm down with all this.
I want to make sure that we are including in this people who regularly depend on our personnel, like older
adults who are more liable to be appreciative of any help they get from somebody that is representing the
agency. And also, from our immigrant and refugee population, who may have limited English proficiency,
and often, are afraid of somebody in a uniform. So when we start looking at the big picture, I'd like to
make sure that we have that kind of representation. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely, I agree.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director, if I might respond?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It might make more sense if I send this list of stakeholders around as an opportunity
for my initial thinking, and then other Board directors can add that specific demographics that I might have
missed, because I don't think I'm going to be able to capture them all. So I'll just start the document, and
we can create it together [AUDIO OUT].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I like that. Thank you. Thank you, Director Williams. All right, well-LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Oh, go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I know we're spending all of this answering questions, but I think it's very helpful. I
agree. I think that that's all good suggestions in terms of how we move forward. And I think that that
started with a lot of concern around the Allied Security contract, and I think a lot of what you're doing will
start to help that.
But it seems like we ought to be taking a look at that and what our options are there. And you've gone
through some of them in terms of, do we move forward with ambassadors or conductors through them?
But since it was kind of front of center for creating this, at least in my mind, it seems like that would be a
piece we would want to take a little deeper dive in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I agree. I agree. Any other comments from many other Board
members? So Chief Grado or Mr. Meader, I'm going to hand it back to you. The next item on the agenda
is the reorganization revision and the TS roles and responsibilities.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yes. I'm going to ask the Chief to kind of run through this fairly quickly. These were
great questions. Thank you for that discussion.
And I do want to touch on-- we do have a section in here about the community outreach and kind of a
proposal that we'd been thinking of, and we'll go through that as well. And so let me say, again, I
apologize for you not having this information. I did send it over to Barbara. I found it in my drafts.
That is absolutely my fault. I thought it was sent. And so it was sent over, and you'll get this information.
I'll make sure you get that prior to these meetings so it's attached to the packet. So, Chief, if you would
walk through fairly quickly here the revisions just to those roles.
We'll have a conversation about the budget. And then I do want to talk about the community outreach just
a little bit more. So, go ahead.
ROBERT GRADO: Sure, and I will go quickly. I'm not going to read this to you. As I said before, there is a
lot of information in here if somebody wants to take the time and read through it.

But just recapping, currently we're a hybrid model. We've use our security officers really as a police force,
which is the part that I'm concerned with. So they're doing everything from critical infrastructure, bike
patrols, vehicle patrols, all of that and emergency response.
So my goal here is to, through this phased approach, very carefully work towards eliminating, number
one, using security officers as emergency responders. That's an issue that I have. Again, a lot of these
calls require professional police services, and nothing against the officers, the security officers out there.
They put their heart and soul into this, but I think it's not the right use.
And then elimination of the contracted security officers doing solo fare enforcement. We would probably
use security officers if we have a major-- when we have a Broncos intake and when we're doing large
crowds of people, but it would be under the supervision of transit police officers. And then I really
ultimately want to get our security officers out of the enforcement role.
Currently, they're suspending passengers. They're taking trespassing complaints. They are doing the fare
enforcement. The ultimate goal is to stop that 100%, and then put them into highly visible posts on our
facilities, and really, like other agencies, use security officers.
They're a great tool great supplement, great customer service, but their role should not be apprehension.
It should be observing, reporting, and customer service, and then be a good liaison to law enforcement.
And also, I think some of you saw this week, we had two situations where TSOs literally saved lives of
people.
They're great. Many of them were trained in advanced life support. They come to us that way, but just
general services to take care of the public, and then special assignments.
So in this thing, I guess you didn't see it, but we kind of talked briefly about it, just some talking points.
And I'm not going to get in the weeds, but unarmed security officers versus armed, there's some
information in there that you can read. Also, Transit Research Board studies, their recommendation is an
armed security model for fixed posts, facilities, and customer service.
There is a section in there that talks about the use of force expectations of a security officer. They're
really only-- by state statute, they're allowed to protect themselves, just like any other citizen would, or
another person in their presence that has a threat of bodily harm. There's a piece in this that's redundant.
Can security officers make arrests? No, they can't.
They only can do what's referred to as a citizen's arrest. Again, crime has to be committed in their
presence. But even so, our asked to them is to not go out. It's the spirit of the law, if you will. It's for more
serious incidents.
I have a piece in here that talks about how many TSOs at full rollout. At the end of this five-year period,
the transition period, I'm expecting it's going to be reduced by 2/3. So we would have a much smaller
group, and then we would also have the ability to really push that we want the previous law enforcement
experience, the police academy, and just really drill down on it like we were before the agency exploded.
I have a piece in here that talks about contracted police, the IGAs with the city. I do believe we should
keep that in some form. It's not going to be the size that it is now, because I really want us to get to have
our own internal capabilities, but our primary focus is going to be on community service policing. So
Deputy Chief Martingano, he threw something out there to me last week, and I thought this was perfect.
And the ultimate goal is to-- if we go to this full model, we'd have 96 police officers. But he said, we'd have
a 96-officer community service force. So by keeping those partnerships with the big cities and having

some of the officers working with this, we keep that connection, and it also helps us let our officers focus
on more of the customer service role and the lower-level quality of life issues.
Mike, did you want to talk about the final thoughts part on this? This is where we get into the community
outreach, and maybe even Director Lewis. We've had some great conversations around this. And that's
the part I'm looking forward to, because that's the-- I've been at this for 30 plus years. And to me, that's
the rewarding part of the job, is connecting with people and doing that outreach.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah, I will-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Mr. Meader.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you. No, this is really, really important, and I'm happy that there have been
some conversations taking place here. One of the things-- I'm going to skip over the budget here real
quick. But from an outreach proposal perspective, one of the things that concerns me is when we have
these committees-- and the reason I'm not a big fan of just creating some kind of a group for a specific
period of time-- is we meet here five or six times. We have a group that meets with us, and we get a
snapshot in time of what thoughts are.
And a lot of times, it's the prevailing winds of what's happening out there at that particular moment in time.
Things change. What I would propose-- and a lot of the stuff that the Chief talked about is developing
some of those other relationships with communities where we're really engaged, and the explorer kind of
a thing, where we get people, we find people who we can kind of grow and even sponsor. Some of those
are great ideas.
But what I would like to do is-- I would appeal to each of the Directors here. My assumption is, as you are
representing your constituents, that there are meetings that take place. There are church meetings. There
are community meetings in places and those kinds of things.
Invite me, invite my staff, to attend those ongoing, at least quarterly, not just while we're having this
committee. And I mean for the next 10 years, the next 12 years, so that we can get face-to-face with
people and get input from the folks in the community. That really is the valuable information.
Putting a group together specifically, we don't get a chance to talk to all of the people who might have
different experiences. So I'm proposing that at least on a quarterly basis the Directors, when they're
having their meetings-- I know this is a little different with COVID-- but if there's virtual things, and when
we get back to having those face-to-face gatherings, and whatnot, that we attend them, and we
continually get the feedback. This is a strategic reorganization we're talking about here, and we need that
input from the community, from our customers, to help guide this.
So I would like to do that. And then in that vein, we would report on a regular basis to the committee, be it
at the Ops Committee, be it the Civil Rights Committee, whatever the Directors choose, information that
we gather and gain. And that will help us, again, drive the direction of this reorganization from a strategic
perspective. I think it's really, really important that we don't fall into that trap of the snapshot in time while
we're meeting for six weeks, and this needs to be ongoing.
To answer the other question that came up from an operator's perspective, we need to get out there and
be present with the operators. It's really, really important. We don't want to rely on the two or three phone
calls we get.
I can tell you this. I am out in the divisions every single week. I would say, on average, I face-to-face talk
to 50 operators, and I get their opinions, and their concerns, and all of those kinds of things from a

security perspective. They talk with our officers, our transit security officers, about what their concerns
are.
And so we feel like we're pretty in touch with what the overall feelings of the majority are. And we
address, I address, the issues that people come up with when I talk to them on an individual basis. We
had the Safety and Security Committee that we met on Saturdays, and I shared that with a number of
you.
We had to kind of stop those, but I'm looking to figure out how to get those things virtually in place again
so we do get that continuous feedback from our operators. It's really, really critically important that this is
an ongoing thing. So I wanted to emphasize that. So I'm on board with however we do it, but I would
suggest it's not just a snapshot in time committee we talk to three or four times and move forward,
because this is dynamic.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Meader. In listening to everybody speak, I think the bottom
line is really being inclusive and transparent. And I can't help but wonder if we should be not looking at
the model of telephone town hall meeting so anybody can call in and listen to your staff.
Because when I think about safety and security, we currently have four components. We have officers
who are armed. We have transit ambassadors or conductors, if you will, who are not. We've got mental
health workers, and we have a homeless outreach coordinator.
And so it seems to me, Mr. Meader, I really like the idea of having that panel do a presentation on Zoom,
on Facebook Live, and maybe some telephone town hall meetings so that the public could hear and ask
questions, and that the telephone town hall meetings be done in all 15 districts so that it really does
incorporate every part of the community that we serve. I think that this is a great dialogue. Any other
Director like to add to this? And I'll go through the list. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, I have nothing at this moment. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker?
MICHAEL MEADER: Chair, I think he had to drop off.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, thanks for that explanation, Mr. Meader. I have nothing right now, thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, thanks, Madam Chair. I love that idea of expanding this conversation to maybe
telephone town halls, Facebook Live, Zoom. I love that.
And also, to Director Williams' point, and I'm sure you would bring this up too, around language justice.
Just having-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --that available, to have interpreters available as well, so that we can have that twoway dialogue with all of the populations that we serve. To your point, Mr. Meader, one of my initial
concerns actually was only having five meetings coming up with some recommendations and patting
ourselves on the back. And so I'm excited to hear you say that you'd like to continue this.
And maybe I didn't do a very thorough job of painting a picture of what this work will look like. But the
intention is to have that work group as a work group that continues on and pretty regularly provide
feedback updates, input, data, to the Board so that, one, we know how the phased approach is going, but
we also know that the themes that are coming up from time to time. And so I'm excited to expand that
conversation.

And then I would also-- I guess I have a curiosity about your ask to inviting us, inviting folks, to our
meetings. And I'm always open to that. I've had Michael Ford actually come to community meetings with
me before, and other staff. And so I recognize that you all are open to that.
But I would guess that Pauletta's seen, has, a list of stakeholders for which we could prioritize and
regularly get on their agenda, maybe quarterly, or something, so that we're not starting from scratch, but
we have a document for which we're working off of to get folks in community. And I'm always happy to
offer my community-- the community groups that I attend. I've done the same for other folks in the
agency, and I'm planning some community meetings right now. And so I'm happy to invite you into those.
But I just wonder what resources we have internally currently.
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. And Director Lewis, I'm happy to work with the communications group. I know
that I've joined you at a couple when we have the schedule change meetings and those kinds of things.
And it's always great dialogue that we have when we're doing that.
Sometimes the questions come up about security when they know that I'm working from a security
perspective as well. And it's always a great dialogue. So I encourage you to, please, let me know. I will
make sure that I'm available, and I'll work with communications to make sure that we're coordinating that
better, and we have all the people we need there.
ROBERT GRADO: So, guys, this is Bob Grado again, if I can just chime in really quick, too. All that
excites me. But another thing I would like to develop is-- I know the Board has a citizens advisory panel of
people.
My thought was to get some folks on there that could be confidential, that we can have open discussion
maybe one or two Board members as well, maybe Director Walker, someone who's terming out that
knows transit that wants to be on this panel. But for us, it'd be great to have a group to bounce things off
continuously, on an ongoing basis, that can be confidential that we can be very open with, and then help
advise us as well. And my goal on that would be smart people, not out to throw a monkey wrench into
everything, just someone who is very thoughtful and could really help us ongoing, and then be able to
provide the Board with assurances for each phase of this rollout each year. And then we talked about
possibly connecting with Civil Rights, and then being part of the quarterly updates as far as an update as
to what we're doing, and where we're heading, and just to keep the Board advised of what's going on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So, Chief Grado, if I'm hearing you correctly, in addition to doing the
outreach to the whole district, you would kind of like to have, like we did the Code of Conduct Ad Hoc
Committee, where it was some folks from different, I don't know, you were talking about the CAC and
some different Board members, and then your team to be able to look at things that you might have just
questions about? Am I hearing you correctly?
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, it could be really anything just to kind of bounce some ideas off of and just help
us make some decisions. I participated in one of your Citizen Advisory Committee meetings a few months
ago with Roger. And I thought, man, that's great. We don't have that here.
I know we're not the Denver Police Department, or Aurora, a big agency, but it would be nice to have
smart people that are reasonable, understand what we're trying to do here, and that could support us.
And maybe even if we have an incident, to help us review something to see if we can do things better
next time, or just to be friendly consultants, if you will, just to get us to get that input without having the
cop's eyes, if you will, but just as a good citizen that uses our system and wants to help us out. Maybe a
quarterly meeting, or if we have something that pops up, be able to call a meeting and get sound advice.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The only thing that I can think of is maybe reconvening the Code of Ethics
Ad Hoc Committee, who actually looked, did the deep dive, into that stuff, and maybe adding a few more
people to meet quarterly. It had five Board members, and then several community organizations, and
then the staff. And maybe that's the model we work from and build from.
ROBERT GRADO: Well, I don't know. How many members do you have on your Citizens Advisory? I
think sometimes it's better to have a smaller group, if you will.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think the Citizens Advisory Committee has a representative pretty much
from every district. I think there is at least 16-ROBERT GRADO: I didn't realize-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --if I remember that correctly.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yes, it does.
ROBERT GRADO: So my thought is sometimes you get too big and you can't really accomplish things or
have a good open discussion. Sometimes these conversations need to be in private. So if you-- I hope I'm
not stealing the meeting here, but I'm thinking out loud. If you have too many Board members, that
doesn't work, because it would have to be more of a public meeting. But just a group that could even help
with personnel discussion and things like that that would not be a public discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think what would be really helpful is if you and maybe Mr. Meader, you
guys got together and figured out what you would want, and then bring it back to this committee. And then
we could really kind of delve into it to see how we can help.
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think that would be helpful. Director Lewis, did I hear you?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I was saying that just in case we were going to choose the Citizens Advisory
Committee, I was saying there's not representation from all districts. I think most, but there isn't a
representation from District B. But I also want to just clarify, what Chief Grado is asking about is the same
as are different from the work group that I recommended that would come and report to the Civil Rights
Committee? I just want to clarify.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, that I don't know.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, well maybe it could be through that same group.
SHONTEL LEWIS: We can talk about it-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to throw a monkey wrench into this. I'm just-SHONTEL LEWIS: That's OK.
ROBERT GRADO: We're going down this road, and I just got different ideas.
MICHAEL MEADER: Chair, this is Mike.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's all good. No, it's totally fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Mr. Meader.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yes, I will add to your suggestion that the Chief and I will bring some suggestions to
you and distribute those to the folks on this committee, the Directors on this committee, regarding what
the Chief's been talking about, OK?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. So I'm showing on my agenda two other things. One is
the quarterly semi-annual monitor review report plan and the outline of the white paper deliverable. So
Mr. Meader, I'll turn that back over to you.
MICHAEL MEADER: There's one other thing here, the budget. We didn't go through this, and I know one
of the Directors had asked, or maybe a couple of you have asked, about what the budget detail is. And so
I'm going to ask Chief to just kind of spend two minutes, if you would-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, perfect.
MICHAEL MEADER: --walking through this piece of it, and then we'll get to those other items. Go ahead,
Chief.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, in your packet that you have or you will be getting, we broke out-- I worked with
one of our cost control people here, and we just kind of looked at the current budget, what we're spending
currently. And it has a 2021 through 2025, so the five phases. It's very high level. We can get more into
the weeds, but that would require an SSI document, because it includes staffing numbers and stuff.
But this is a high-level document, and it kind of shows each year. Like phase 1, first year, we would
reduce the security contract by $970,000, and that would fund the additional nine internal police officers.
And then some of that also would be sent over for the onboard, the fare conductors, I'm sorry. And then it
goes through each phase.
So the second year, it's $2.2 million. Again, we're taking money-- the first three years, the money is all
coming back out of the security contract. And then final phases, phase 4 and phase 5, the security
contract reduction gets much smaller, because we're not going to have the ability to reduce that. And then
the IGA, the secondary police officer contract, that's where the bulk of the money comes.
So at the end of the five phases, again, very high level, today's dollar value we're thinking $8.5 million
would be reallocated from the existing budget. And I'm talking 2019 budget, not the COVID budget. We
have to be clear about that.
But $8.5 million would be reallocated totally, and that would get us an additional 82 police officers at the
end of the five-year period, and brings us to I believe it was 96 sworn members of the division. So very
high level, and we can do a deeper dive. One other thing. Obviously, this will be done with the CFO and
folks involved here that will come back to the Board as the overall budget.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you. Thank you, Chief. OK, and we'll keep moving on.
The next item that the Chair mentioned is the quarterly semi-annual review. We would like to, at least
through this reorganization, meet in committee, give kind of a status update along with information that
we're gaining through our meetings with the community, with our customers, with our operators, and also
present a little more data as we gather that so that we can continue to make sure that we're on the path
that everyone's expecting us to be on. And the question would be, what is the appropriate committee for
that?
And we can report out if we need to in multiple committees if there's some information that we can
provide that's useful. But right now, I'm thinking of the Ops Committee. That's when typically we talk about
the safety and the asset management security would be good. But I would be open to whichever
committee is the appropriate committee for that. So we'll plan on doing that if there isn't any objection to it
and make sure that we're having these conversations on an ongoing basis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

MICHAEL MEADER: Any objections to that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis-KATE WILLIAMS: Chair? Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: This is Director Williams. I'm sure that Director Lewis-- and she can chime in. But I'm
sure that Director Lewis would be happy to include that as part of the Ops Customer Service Committee.
Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, yeah, I have no objections to that. The objection that I have is just making this
decision at this moment, because we don't have the documents. I don't at least. I'll just checked my email
again. And so I just would like to have confirmation that-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I just received it. Yeah, Director Lewis, I just received it. So you may have it
by now. But, OK, thank you.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you very much. And the last item here in the last few minutes we have, I
wanted to just make sure that everyone is on board with just kind of touching base with the deliverable.
Similar to the Code of Conduct Ad Hoc Committee where the white paper was put together.
Marisela was responsible for that. She has graciously taken on that, volunteered to be responsible for
putting together the white paper on this committee as well. And so I wanted to ask Marisela if she would
just kind of give a quick overview of what we did before, what we would expect to do this time, and make
sure that everybody on the committee is comfortable with that. Marisela?
MARISELA QUIROZ: Yes, thanks, Mike. I believe a lot of the members of this committee were mostly on
the ad hoc committee for the code of conduct. But we envision a final look for a white paper to look
somewhat similar to that.
So I was planning to share my screen to kind of remind everyone, or for those seeing it for the first time,
what that looked like. But basically, we can circulate the one from that code of conduct if that would be
helpful. But it would be an executive summary, a background, what the purpose of the committee was,
the members, just details about meetings, the scope and the process of what we did during the meetings,
our findings. And then for this particular committee, I was thinking outlining the plan, and how we plan to
move forward with the check-ins, and potentially creating these groups where we can continue to discuss
this information. Does anyone have any comments immediately about that, of proceeding with that
format?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think it's a great format, Marisela.
MARISELA QUIROZ: And of course, similar to last time, but for those who weren't on the committee, we'll
put together a draft, and then we will circulate it for comment. So I am hoping we can get to that on
Monday, November 23, the first draft. We recognize it's the holidays, but hopefully we can find some time.
And then we would give you about a week to provide any comments to us, so by November 30, and that
would allow us to discuss any outstanding comments or concerns on our meeting on December 2, and
then-- or excuse me, December 3, and then get it all finalized for the committee on December 8.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. Thank you.
MICHAEL MEADER: And, Chair, this is Mike Meader again. Thank you for that, Marisela. If there is any
other concern or question that pops up from any of the Directors, please let us know. One of the things, I
just wanted to reiterate what we were hoping that the outcome from this committee would be, is that there

would be a preliminary approval for the overall plan, what we're trying to accomplish here, and then a
recommendation that we move forward with the first phase in '21.
To move forward with the plan, we would, again, report out on a regular basis, at least quarterly, with the
progress what we're doing and help drive basically the approval in ongoing years for a continuation of the
plan, be it what was presented here, or however we would tweak that based upon the information that
came along at that time. So that would be my hope, that people would be in support of that from the
committee moving forward with the first step of the reorganization. I think it approaches the spirit of what
we're trying to accomplish, the overall goal of what we're trying to accomplish here. So that's what I would
be looking for from the committee.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Today?
MICHAEL MEADER: Today, correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. And so I will just go down the line and ask Board members if they
would support phase 1 of the plan. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely, I'm in. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. Yes, I would support phase 1 of the plan. I need to spend more time with it,
too, but yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker? Director Walker is off, correct, sir?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yes, he is off.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would also support this plan. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I can't support this plan without some assurances that the things that we say we're
going to include and the things that we say we're going to do are actually included in this document, and
they're actually absent for that. Secondly, this is the second week in a row where we received the
documents in the meeting, and so it's hard to respond to something in that moment. For those of us that
respond and learn differently, it doesn't really set us up for success. I'm speaking for myself, as I've said
this a few times, but I need the documents in advance.
And so as is right now, I can't support the plan, but I get to a place to support the time with some
assurances in place. And I'm happy to build those into the plan with Chief Grado, and his staff, and Mr.
Meader. But I can't support it as it is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I tend to agree with that. I would much prefer to see something that is actually what
we are supporting. I appreciate that this is phase 1, and I don't want to slow the process down. But I
guess a sort of qualified yes at this point.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what, Mr. Meader, I'm wondering if we need to just kind of delve
out that piece of the community outreach component to it in terms of what we do for 2021, right, in
developing at least a parameter of how we're going to do outreach on an inclusive level, utilizing social
media platforms, as well as our telephone town hall meetings, doing it in multiple languages. And I think
that would be pretty easy to pull together in terms of developing a strategy and a plan since we do
telephone town hall meetings already.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there a way to do that? But I don't-- I think I want to be very respectful of
the logistics that it takes and that our staff needs to put into place to plan this kind of an outreach
component. But in light of that, then, I think that it sounds like you would have the support of this
committee moving forward, but with those pieces in place.
That's what I'm hearing, correct? So maybe by next week, we could vote on that. Would that be too late
for you?
MICHAEL MEADER: No. We can put that together, certainly. And that was the other question.
We did have a meeting initially scheduled for next week. We've kind of planned on not, because we
thought we went through it. But if the committee would like to meet next week, we can present that and
just make sure everyone's comfortable with the recommendation with those things included. And then
we'll wrap it up on the 2nd as planned, and present it to the Board-- to committee on the 8th and the
Board on the 15th, if that works. So would we like to do that next week?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: My guess is yes, but I'll ask. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, I want to move it forward. I'd like to see us continue to keep this ball rolling.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. I'm not sure when I'll be-- I'm fine with the meeting. I'm just not sure what my
schedule is next week.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't mind meeting, but I'd like to go with what-- if people are available. I don't want
to have a meeting with maybe one or two of us. So I'm happy to meet, but I'm happy to respect that
people probably need some time off, too, since we're in a global pandemic.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, yeah, and it's going to be-- yeah. So and maybe-SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm not in a rush.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, well, but, Mr. Meader, you might be in a rush, right, to get this plan
approved?
MICHAEL MEADER: If we don't want to meet personally, I can make sure that we get the information out
to all Directors so they can review it. And then-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That would be great.
MICHAEL MEADER: --weigh in with any feedback prior to the 2nd when we finalize the white paper and
the information we're going to present to the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think that's probably a better plan, then.
MICHAEL MEADER: Then I will commit to that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Well, are there any other matters to come before this
committee?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No. Thank you so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I want to thank all of you. I think that this has been a great conversation.
With that, it is 9:32, and I am adjourning the Safety and Security Ad Hoc Committee.
Have a great day, everybody, and stay safe.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you.
ROBERT GRADO: Thanks, everyone.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, guys.

