2021 – 02 – 10
Executive Committee
JOHN MCKAY: Great. And Brandy Hunter are also with us. OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Peggy Catlin. I'm on.
JOHN MCKAY: I'm sorry, Director. I see you there.
LYNN GUISSINGER Now I'm back, but I'm not seeing-- I don't know if you're sharing your screen still or if
you went away from that. Can you do that still, please? OK. February Board meeting agenda review. Has
everybody reviewed the agenda? And are there any comments or questions?
OK. Do I have any objections to approval of the agenda? Did you have something, Mr. Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I'm sorry, I was on mute. Sorry. I have a comment. At some point-- and maybe it's
not at the Board meeting or maybe it's a Committee meeting. I'd like to get an update, an N Line update
with regard to the spate of recent problems on the N Line related to the Wabtec software that has been
causing numerous dropped runs.
I think we've had bus bridges for three days in a row now. And if we could get staff or someone to give us
an update as to what's going on with Wabtec, with the software, why we're having these problems, and
when they'll get resolved, that would be very, very helpful. And I think they're also impacting other commuter
rail lines as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's something we-- your other matters that we'll talk about this morning.
VINCE BUZEK: That'd be great.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That maybe a big question for you, Miss Johnson. Can we bring that up another-can you hear me?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can we bring that up in other matters? Or is that a good time to discuss that this
morning? Or does that need other people? Or what's the best way to handle that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, if I may-LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I can make a suggestion. I believe that could be a discussion item under the
Operations Committee. And that we could schedule that, perhaps at the March 2nd meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Does that work for you, Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, if we have to wait that long, I guess we do. I just think that it's critical to get messaging
out there ASAP. Thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. And thank you very much for that, Director Buzek. If you'd like that sooner, we
can have a conversation around that. If you want a discussion item and have an understanding of what it
is that we're doing.
VINCE BUZEK: Great.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: If I could just add to that. I don't know if you want to get through the approval on the
agenda. But I would add some support for that point. We've had several days. It seems to me in looking at
notifications, we're seeing increasing dropped runs on the G and the A as well as the N.

I'm worried that we're going to-- we'll start to get the reputation we had at the outset, of one that's problem
plagued and not reliable. And beyond that, when the PTC kicks out, of course, we have the problems with
noise over in this quarter, starting at 3:00 something in the morning. And virtually every train through,
sounded its horns and is continuing to sound the horns. And it just seems like Wabtec in particular, or at
least the software, is a continual source of problems. Just want to make sure Debra's aware and that we
have a plan for addressing it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that-- Miss Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Cook. And I do think it's imperative. And so as I
hear the conversation, I will confer with staff and work through the Board Office, and double back because
I'm thinking that we can have an engaged discussion as it relates to commuter rail operations because
Wabtec is important technology that we leverage for the operability of our train systems.
And so I think we need to speak about it holistically as it relates to all the operations because quite naturally,
when you come in at Denver Union Station, we're talking about a train service being dropped, recognizing
that the A line takes priority over the N line. There's a lot of interdependencies there. And so I think we need
to have that conversation about each of the lines and the impacts thereof.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So sorry if I missed it. But where is this conversation? Are we still talking the
Operations Committee?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I think that would be the most pertinent one. But recognizing the importance of this,
perhaps we could do something prior to March 2nd. But recognizing we'd have to call a meeting. Our next
Board meeting is February 23, and the week later is the March 2 meeting. So I will-- I'm not certain if we
can do a discussion item. I guess we could at the February Board meeting because it's no action required.
So I could work to see if we can have an updated list at that Board meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: That'd be great.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. All right, very well.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Great. So that would, I assume, come in other matters or something or
discussion item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: It would be a discussion item agendized on the February 23 meeting agenda.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So, I guess, do we vote to amend the agenda then, Barbara or John?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, may I make-LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So there's one other element before you vote to amend the agenda. I'd be remiss in
not to bring forward. I did have a conversation earlier with Miss McManus, and the one element that needs
to be incorporated on said agenda has to do with the collective bargaining agreement between the Regional
Transportation District and Amalgamated Transit Union local 10001.
Recognizing the discussion that ensued last night, I foresee an action item being brought forward. So that
needs to be agendized. So before the amendment, I would ensure that you all are cognisant of that fact.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So that would be a recommended action?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, it would be, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So we have two proposed agenda amendments. One is recommended action
on the CBA and the other is a discussion item on the software problems that we're having.

DEBRA JOHNSON: I would qualify it as commuter rail operations.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Commuter rail operations, great.
VINCE BUZEK: I move to approve the agenda as amended.
JOHN MCKAY: Director, I'm not able to raise my hand. I'm sorry to interrupt.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's fine.
JOHN MCKAY: But there was some discussion about adding a special Board meeting. I'm not sure if that's
still in the conversation, but that would mean that the original agenda for the regular Board meeting would
not need to be amended. But the special Board meeting agenda could be created for that to address those
two items, if that's still part of the conversation. Just wanted to throw that out there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thank you, John. I appreciate it. It seems like there was something else that
would be part of the special Board meeting, but I think I started the idea of-- in talking with Barbara and
John-- the idea of the special endeavor Board meeting for RTD to lend its Board officially to the bill. The
Accountability Committee's bill.
As we understand it, and it's not totally clear, I think, to our lobbyist, but we think that it will be introduced
on February 16 by Matt Gray. And so we'd like to not be too late to the game in saying that we support this.
So that was the idea of the special Board meeting. Was there something else? Do I remember right, Miss
Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, the special Board meeting was going to-- and thank you very much for that, Mr.
McKay. The special Board meeting was going to incorporate or encompass, I should say, the CBA because
it had not gone to a committee. So those were the two items, actually.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So would that be-- would we move the CBA to the special Board meeting and not
add it into the agenda?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And the Accountability Committee bill consideration. So I guess, at this point, what
we would want to do is approve that agenda, the CBA recommended action, and the recommended action
on the Accountability Committee bill to a special Board meeting. And then amend the regular meeting
agenda to add a discussion item on commuter rail operations, is that correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I just want to add one clarifying question. And I think I'm going to defer to General
Counsel in a second after I pose my question. But recognizing that if we do agendize the anticipated bill
draft for said special Board meeting and it doesn't come to fruition, we would pull said item, recognizing
that we have no certainty with timing.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Does that sound right to you, Melanie? Yeah? OK.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. So I guess the motion would be to amend the agenda to add the commuter
rail operations discussion, and add an agenda for the special Board meeting to recommended actions
regarding the CPA and the Accountability Committee bill, with the caveat that staff would pull that
Accountability Committee bill if it's not moving forward when we think it is. Does that sound right?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair. One more just clarifying question, since we have a special Board
meeting. Instead of amending the standing one, we could just add the discussion item to the special Board
meeting, and then everything is copacetic.

LYNN GUISSINGER: John's nodding, so that sounds fine to me.
DEBRA JOHNSON: All right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So we'll just add-- we'll just make all three of those items, the items for a special
Board meeting. And now I'm going to ask for approval of the Board meeting agenda without any
amendments. And then we'll go to the special-- yes, ma'am?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm so sorry, one last thing.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine.
DEBRA JOHNSON: With the-- oh, no. OK. We're approving the draft agenda, and then you're going to go
back to the Executive Committee agenda, correct?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm going to approve the draft agenda for the Board meeting, then approve the holding
and agenda for the special Board meeting, and then go back to the Executive Committee.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Very well. That's all I needed to know. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Do I have a motion to approve the draft agenda?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved to Rosenthal.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second. Paul Rosenthal made the motion. Shelley Cook seconded it. All in favor?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Aye. Anyone opposed? All right. Now do we have a motion to have a special Board
meeting with two action items, to recommended actions with regard to the CBA and the Accountability
Committee bill, unless the Accountability Committee bill isn't ready, and a discussion item on commuter rail
operations. Do I have a motion?
SHELLEY COOK: So moved. Shelley Cook.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook. Second?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second. Rosenthal.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: I have a question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes? Question?
VINCE BUZEK: So when's this special Board meeting?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's before or after the regular Board meeting, right?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: I guess, I don't understand why we need a special Board meeting, but OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it has to do with the-- I'll let somebody else answer. John, do you want to
answer? I think it has to do with the fact that these haven't gone through Committee.
JOHN MCKAY: That's exactly right.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, OK.
JOHN MCKAY: Right. So if it's something that was a hasn't passed through, I think it's article five of the
bylaws that say that-- or it recommends highly that items pass first through committee, then Executive
Committee, unless they're treated differently.
VINCE BUZEK: Got it. OK, thanks. That clarifies it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. The motion on the floor. All in favor? Aye.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anyone opposed? OK. We're done with the agenda. John, if you could share your
screen for me for a minute, please. I like the way you're going back so we can see each other, but it does

help me to look at it to see what's next. All right. Other matters. Retreat RFP update. Is that you, Miss
Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So as it relates to where we are with the retreat, basically we submitted a scope
of work. It was the intent to have that readily available to solicit proposals, Friday the 5th.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think somebody is not muted, but go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. And so that was the intent. I was going to ask Miss McManus as we had a
conversation, she was going to confirm for me that that solicitation was available the 5th. And I have yet to
receive that confirmation. So Miss McManus, do you have that confirmation?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Miss McManus, are you there? You might be muted.
JOHN MCKAY: She says, yes. I just got a text from her.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, thank you.
JOHN MCKAY: She's on the road at the moment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, very well. So that's where we are in reference to that schedule. So we anticipate- I have it actually, right here, as relates to the timeline. So where we are, the solicitation, the RFP was
advertised and made available to prospective proposers. And then we go through our timeline, entry period,
and things of the like. And proposals are due on February 22. So that's where we are with that status.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. And we don't yet have a date for that, right? For the retreat.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Update for what, ma'am?
LYNN GUISSINGER: For the retreat.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, we don't. It's based upon the proposal, so we have to evaluate those and see what
they provide to us. And then we can discern going forward, once we identify, we go through the evaluation
process because we didn't prescribe what it was.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I believe-- are you doing the APTA peer review report too?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, I want to qualify what APTA peer review is this, because as you are aware,
there's two. And it doesn't specify which peer review we're talking about.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I didn't put this together, so I don't know. Is this from Angie, John?
JOHN MCKAY: This one came from Barbara.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'll give an update on both. I'll give an update on both just for clarification sake. So we
have a APTA internal audit function peer review. And we actually have a meeting this afternoon with our
colleagues from APTA as they were going to identify the panelists. We have a skeleton agenda we were
going to review, so that's where it stands currently.
We anticipate the internal audit function peer review kicking off in March as well. I will have more clarity
after the meeting that we have agendized for this afternoon. The second APTA peer review, as you all
heard about last evening, is safety and security. There is a kick-off meeting being held next Tuesday,
February 16, where we are officially meeting our peer reviewers as well as our consultant, who is involved
with APTA as well.
And that will map out our path for a different schedule. So basically, both of these-- no pun intended-- are
on parallel tracks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. As I mentioned last night, I think it's great we're doing-- I think I was talking
about the safety and security, but I think both of those sound like great places to get the peer review. Any
other comments? Any other questions on that or the retreat? Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: No, it all sounds good. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Your hand's raised.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I have a question about the retreat. So the forum we're going to do for JEDI, is that
going to be at the retreat as one of the items we go over or that's going to be a separate meeting?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Madam Chair to address Director Rosenthal with your permission?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You bet.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So those are two separate entities. And when we qualify the retreat update, I just want
to ensure that everybody recognizes that this is a strategic planning effort that will encompass a retreat.
And so as we go forward, I will work with the Board Office as well as the Chair, so we can qualify it as such,
as it relates to the justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion training, that solicitation is in process right now.
I, along with Barbara McManus, met with Director Lewis and Director Dishell. We have our path forward. I
met with staff this morning as relates to submitting the scope of work, and getting that moving as it relates
to the JEDI as well. So those are two separate entities at this point, but recognizing that JEDI should be
intertwined in all that we do, that will be an element I'm almost certain that will unfold in our strategic
planning.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. And then follow up, there. Is that something that perhaps, we should bring up in
the next Board meeting on the 23rd? Just give a status update, just like what you gave right now so the
Board knows that we're following up? What do you think?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would say, sir, since we would have an active solicitation, I would not like to discuss
that in the public session because we want to ensure that there's a level playing field for competition.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any other questions on what we've discussed so far? All right. Discussion regarding
YouTube streaming in comments and live chat. Is that also Miss Johnson? Who's leading that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I will defer to Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: I can speak to that one. Thank you. I can take that one. And I do have Nicky and Brandy
to rely on for this one. They've been doing the heavy lift with respect to Zoom. So I will say that as of last
night, we were also broadcasting via YouTube streaming so people could-- if they didn't want to participate
in the meeting itself-- could watch via YouTube.
The video was actually available. I think within the meeting itself, I think, you could go back and start to
watch the beginning of the meeting. Laurie Huff from communications was using that to verify some
statements that were made during the meeting in real time, which was great for her, great for
communications to be able to get that out there.
But in doing so, we're able to put YouTube-- put the meetings out on YouTube, which actually reaches a
larger audience because Zoom is only available if you use Chrome or Firefox browsers. So if you're using
YouTube, you can use it regardless of your browser. You can follow along with the meeting, you can watch
it after the fact.
YouTube Live also offers the opportunity for comments like you'd see on any other YouTube video, and
also the live chat. Those were disabled last night. That was a policy decision. We wanted to speak to this
group here, to ask for comments and concerns or questions about how those-- whether to respond to
comments, whether to answer questions in real time, whether that was the responsibility of the Board. And

we've spoken with Melanie about this to some extent, and I'll throw it over to her if she has any additional
comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything to add?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Vice Chair. I think the conversations that we've had with staff
is that we wanted to get some clarity and direction. At least starting with the Executive Committee, we've
had various Directors reach out to staff, as I understand it, to say that they want to chat and comments
function enabled. And we wanted to get a little bit more clarity and perhaps, some cohesive direction about
whether that's something that the full Board really wants to do.
Certainly, any time that you open up the comments in the chat, you have some concerns around opening
up a public forum, First Amendment concerns that surround that. Right now, we have a social media policy
that talks about how we have someone on staff who's monitoring all of those comments and ensuring that
there aren't things like vulgar or offensive statements that are being posted on there. And so that's another
consideration that perhaps, Brandy or maybe Nicole want to speak to.
Right now, it doesn't sound like we have staff available to also manage that additional forum in those
comments. I think the other clarification that staff was wanting is what the expectation was from the Board,
whether you were envisioning that folks ask comments during the public meeting. Is there some expectation
that staff is supposed to be responding to those? Is it only meant to be a one-way communication? Lots of
questions there. So that's where we thought we would start with the Executive Committee.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Melanie, I have a question about that. So I would add, would those comments also
be permanent record? So they'd have to be CORA'able and we'd have to retain those. And would that be
correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Well, they would certainly be subject to CORA because they would be something, I
think, arguably we are making, maintaining, and keeping. But we can determine whether we would actually
need to retain that. We could decide that-- there's some details there. Potentially, some flexibility.
I'm not sure how much control we have over the actual chat and comments function in YouTube, whether
we can-- I think my understanding is it's sort of binary. You can either turn it on or turn it off. And we'd be
sort of-- I see John's raising his hand, so I'm going to defer to him on that technical piece.
JOHN MCKAY: That is correct. As of last night, we did not put those out there because it was decided we
weren't quite ready for prime time on that feature. But it is something that, at least Directors Dishell,
Bouquet, and I think, Director Lewis, have expressed interest in possibly offering that. Noting of course,
that they are 3 of 15, and for bylaws change, this would require-- I would think. And I'm going to toss that
over to Melanie. This may require a bylaws change in order to incorporate that.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, John. Just for that clarification, the bylaws do talk about how the
Board meetings are to be a forum right now for public comments. So I would recommend a clarification in
the bylaws if this is something you wanted to change and have public comments in the YouTube chat and
comment feature.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And I guess, I would like to know if there is a proposal to go forward with that bylaws
change to allow for this, then could we also know what other transit agencies-- what are they doing?
Obviously, they're in a similar position with Zoom and Teams, et cetera.
Are they also allowing comments? And how are they handling that, so that we can learn from their
successes, their failures and their lessons, and et cetera. And maybe APTA could help with that, maybe
they know something, best practices.

DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may offer this up, I do know that John McKay and Barbara McManus and Nicole
and others from the Board Office have leveraged the-- oh my gosh, why am I having-- I can't think right
now. The Board Support committee, in reference to what people are doing holistically, so I would suggest
that, yes, they could reach out as it relates specifically to comments or questions and have an
understanding. Because there is a myriad of different ways that people are handling this, contingent upon
open meeting laws and sunshine laws that are pursuant to that state. So I would offer that up. John, would
you agree?
JOHN MCKAY: I would.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. All right. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair? If you're taking feedback-LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you hear me now? I am very sorry. I had a pipe break yesterday, and the people
here are cleaning up the water mess. So I see Nicky's hand and Shelley's hand. I'm not sure who is next.
Did you have something to add, Nicky? I think you were up.
NICOLE CAREY: I just wanted to bring it to the forefront that with the Zoom meetings, that the Board Office,
and me in particular, just because at this point, I have the webinar license. I'm receiving emails from
participants and attendees that are able to speak, asking questions and requesting responses, which I've
just interned to-- not GMR, to the appropriate groups.
But it is, I think, more than anything, just with the live chat to think about the resources that we need to have
to respond to those kinds of questions throughout a meeting, and if it's something that RTD can afford or
can do to respond in live time or when appropriate or what the policy is going to be during those kinds of
meetings too. And I think you're hearing also, people. I saw several people that were raising their hand as
attendees during the committee meeting. And so, do we continue to just push to we do public comment on
a Board meeting, not on committee meetings and such? But when I see a participant list, and I get to see
attendee lists, and their hands go up. So no one else really sees that, but-LYNN GUISSINGER: Nikki, would we solve that problem by just having the Chair announce that we don't
take public participation during the meeting?
NICOLE CAREY: I'm sure that that answers the question. I just know that, especially for last night, it was a
highly controversial topic. And so you had quite a few people that want to just mention something. So it's a
policy that needs to be decided upon by the Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. OK.
NICOLE CAREY: With the GM too.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think we'll circle back here. I want to hear the rest of the conversation. I think,
Director Cook, you were next.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I just wanted to second the idea that Paul Rosenthal had about finding out what
other transit agencies, and I'd say local governments, are doing around this. I'm a little bit-- I think, go easy
here. Let's be careful about venturing into this because if we don't have the ability to moderate and respond,
I think we're creating an expectation and then not meeting it in that regard.
We're doing a good thing by getting it out there on YouTube. And then let's take it from there after we've
had a chance to look at what other places are doing.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Mr. McKay?
JOHN MCKAY: Director Rosenthal was actually first, I believe.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And actually, just to echo what Director Cook said. You know, this could
be a slippery slope to where just like what Nicky was saying, which is people raise their hand, and there's
an expectation. Can they participate? And then some Directors may say, well hey, you know, now we have
people who are participating. Let's allow them to participate.
So the minute we open the possibility to have them post online, it's going to open up a discussion and
possible action by the Board to allow them to ask questions during meetings. And then, so we have to say
to ourselves from a procedural manner, is that what we want to keep the discussions going, to make sure
that we have good procedure, and that we're making decisions in an orderly way, and that sort of thing.
So I echo that. I think we should proceed with due diligence, and make sure we do our homework before
acting quickly. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. McKay?
JOHN MCKAY: And just to let you know, we have added to the procedural scripts and to the YouTube
stream as a standard block of text that there won't be any public commentary during each of those
committee meetings. And if the members of the public would like to participate in public participation with
the Board, that they're welcome to do that. And there's a link to the Board's meeting portal so that they can
see where the next Board meeting is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. So again, I apologize for missing the conversation, but are we sort of a
consensus that we want to go slowly here? Can someone sort of give me-- are we asking to find out more
about other ways other transit agencies deal with it? Or for now, I guess, we don't want to enable chat and
comment and all of those things. Is that where we are? I see some heads nodding. Did you have anything,
Miss Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Madam Chair. And I thank you very much, members of the Board, for your
comments. I do think the most prudent course of action first, is recognizing what we're dealing with. It seems
as if we're trying to come up with solutions and we've yet to identify what the problem is we're trying to
solve. So I would strongly encourage us to leverage our relationship with APTA, look to see what other
transit agencies are doing.
I recognize that Director Cook also said other jurisdictions as well. So I think that would be the most prudent
course of action, and then bring it back to this group for discussion. Because if we don't really have a
problem recognizing what Miss Carey put forward, relative to the significant subject matter we had last
night, this could be an anomaly. We don't know.
But I think first we have to identify, what are the best practices that people have utilized, and then have a
discussion around that. So I ask you to consider that course of action. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. All right. Sounds like we've got a plan. And I think, do we have any other
matters? I've got a quick question, and then one that I just want to see how Miss Johnson wants to handle
it. My quick question, Miss Johnson, is can you just give us-- I've had several people asking me about the
hiring update for a CFO. Are we in progress at this point?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, actually, we have leveraged a relationship with the executive recruitment firm,
actually. It is Krauthamer & Associates (K&A recognizing that you all use that entity to find me. I think they
did a great job. So basically, Why was this? No, no, no. But basically-VINCE BUZEK: I love my Executive Director. And so where we are. I have been working in tandem with
our Senior Manager of Human Resources, and we have engaged Krauthamer & Associates (K&A
leveraging the contract that we currently had. And so that recruitment is underway. A job description was

just outlined and approved, and was placed in a myriad of different outlets just last week, the latter part of
last week.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So that's where we are. And just to manage everybody's expectations, it's for Chief
Financial Officer is one, and the Chief Administrative Officer. As we know, those were intertwined before.
And previously, this organization had them bifurcated. I'm going back to that model.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And what's the timeline for responses, and sort of your projection? Are we looking at
a couple of months to having someone or longer? What do you think?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, off the top of my head, recognizing I'm going to have a briefing meeting next
week, considered this was just posted. I would say, optimally, probably within the next couple of months.
And I say that for a couple of different reasons. There has been a lot of movement in the CFO world in the
transit space, and I'm not saying that this person would necessarily come from transit.
But at Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority, that CFO just moved MARTA There's active recruitment
at AC Transit. So there is a lot of things happening there. So it just depends where people want to go
geographically speaking. And we're leveraging a lot of different conduits for that. So I would love to have
somebody in place, trust and believe. Sooner than later, but I would say with us being in February, optimally,
maybe beginning of May.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. I appreciate it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. And so, what is the price tag on hiring this firm to do that search for us, for those
two searches?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So when you say what's the price tag, I just want to understand-PAUL ROSENTHAL: So how much are we paying them?
DEBRA JOHNSON: How much are we paying them? I don't have that at the ready, but we're leveraging
the existing contract. And so I want to say, roughly for the search since he worked for us before, it could be
around-- it's under $100,000, I'd say.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Because he's giving us the discount, of course, because, hey.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then internal applicants are also encouraged to apply?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, of course. Of course. And just so you know how I operate, I spoke with people, so
they're aware-- like the individuals that are reporting to me. Let me qualify by saying, Senior Managers, I
actually spoke to each and every one personally and said that I want you to know that this is forthcoming.
I encourage you to apply.
And what we're doing is that it's on our website, but it's directing everybody to Krauthamer & Associates
(K&A as they go forward. Because this is a level playing field here, there's nobody earmarked for these
positions. And so I just want everybody to be aware of that. And I think it even enables the openness and
transparency of this process by leveraging a firm because I think it gives everybody an equal opportunity
to put their best foot forward.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And I'm sure Phil Washington is available, so maybe he'll want to come home.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I think Phil got something else in the hopper, but yeah.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: I bet. All right, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Miss Catlin. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I understand that-- just a clarification, Miss Johnson. We had
leftover money from the executive search for you from our budget. So we are using some of that surplus in
this search?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I just wanted to let Director Rosenthal know that because they were very economical
in their expenditures when we went through that search for the Executive Director GMCEO. And so I
applaud you for utilizing that existing contract.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I thought that was the easiest thing to do. I got enough fish to fry. And also, I think it
gives credibility to the process, that this is not some fait accompli.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. And aside from Greg getting us a great outcome in the previous search, he
was just great to work with. Peggy and I were working with him a lot. And he's smart and certainly, added
a lot of value.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, I concur completely, Lynn. He was such an easy person to work with. And he
was on my mind lately to reach out and just see how he was doing.
DEBRA JOHNSON: He's a busy little bee, let me tell you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Perfect. OK, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome. Thanks for asking that, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. And I have one more question that I think I sent you about a 2 minute notice, a
text, right before this that I was-- unless I didn't hit send. But we don't have to do this all online, although I
think it's probably of interest to everyone. But the Accountability Committee, it seems to me like they're
coming close to making a recommendation on these local service councils.
And they're talking about either four with travel sheds or-- did I not send that to you? Maybe I didn't hit send.
Or know maybe going county-wide, which would be seven or eight, or different ways of doing it. And it
would be-- they would have control of local, not control. It's unclear, but they would be certainly having
strong input into what they consider local service planning.
And of course, the devil's in the details about what's local service planning if a bus is going through several
counties or that sort of thing. And I guess, this is a personal request to Miss Johnson. I need to understand
better what you think works. But also, I think, it will certainly affect the governing process with the Board.
And so, I don't know if the conversation-- maybe you can have some right now, about if we need to give
input to them, I think it's soon, because I think they're coming to recommendations soon. So whatever
comments, thoughts you have on that, Miss Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would need to look at it because I've been just immersed in meetings since early this
morning. So I do see there's a text from you, but I hadn't looked at my phone. The one thing on the face of
it without having read whatever it is that you sent-LYNN GUISSINGER: It was basically, what I said is I wanted to raise the issue of the local service-DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. No, no, no. I appreciate that because recognizing that this is a multifaceted service
area, quite naturally even when you talk about local service, you're going to cross jurisdictional lines. And
so basically, from a service planning vantage point, sometimes we do in-lining. And what that means is
there could be a specific route that crosses a certain area, and then it becomes another route.

And so when you think about just local aspects, how you create the transfer aspect because we may have
buses running on a certain thoroughfare that may traverse multiple jurisdictions. And I believe that is what
our Manager of Service Planning brought forward to the Accountability Committee Operations
subcommittee. So I think there has to be an understanding for individuals that may not be well-versed in
service planning, that while we're trying to do something here, there's implications elsewhere.
And so those are my initial comments because if we just talk about local service in and of itself, perhaps
that's a little different. Whereby, there could be a process where services ran just within that jurisdiction.
And there are moneys that are leveraged for that. But what does that mean collectively for the broader
region when we talk about having a comprehensive transportation network? Does that make sense, what
I'm trying to say?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it makes a lot of sense. But you know, I've heard them kick around various
numbers that would go to those councils to take a first shot at. And they're talking about a big chunk of our
operating budget, I think, there's no final thing. And I don't think-- so, I mean, I guess some of the questions
I have is how would that work?
How much money? What role do they play with respect to the Board? Should consideration be given to the
Board districts so that the Boards are involved with one particular-- if they go to travel sheds, they're talking
about four of them. So how do we draw those so that the Board members are involved and working with
them? And do four travel sheds make the most sense?
I guess, again, like I say, I think now-- I'll defer to you on this. You know it better than I do. But now is the
time to be giving them-- I thought that the information from service planning really kind of opened their eyes
and was helpful to them. And if there are other things that we feel strongly about, in terms of how it's
structured, now's the time to be giving that. So maybe we can talk a little more at some point.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. And I agree with that because I think, while the intent is good, once you put this
in statute, there's always the interpretation. And I'm not trying to disparage anyone, but to the point that you
just raised, service planning requires a lot. It's not just, oh, we're going to have x amount of vehicles out on
a route. They're going to have x amount of blocks, x amount of runs, because most people don't even know
what I mean by a run and a block.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And so the point of the matter is understanding that there is a lot of nuances involved
with that. And then we could be hamstrung because the intent was there, but individuals really don't
understand the whole aspect of service planning. So if anything, what I will do is have the service planning
team look at this in such a way where we do provide feedback about what the implications are.
But not knowing-- I think it gives us an opportunity. What I'm trying to say as I'm formulating my thoughts
on the spot here, is that we can create some different scenarios and think about, OK, these are the what
ifs as we go forward with this. So you all are informed and can provide reasonable and sound feedback as
relates to whatever position we take in the recommendations that are brought forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think that if you've got service planning staff that can do that, it'd be great to
get that to us and to get it to the committee. Director Cook-DEBRA JOHNSON: One last question. I'm so sorry. In an effort to manage expectations, what time frame
are we looking at here?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, I'll look at the Operations Committee agenda. I think that's where this is,
might be in Governance. I can't remember.

DEBRA JOHNSON: I think it was Operations.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it was too. And you and I can talk, but I think they were saying they wanted to
have recommendations out like maybe later this month. So I think it's a short time frame.
DEBRA JOHNSON: But we've been working on this. So I have a couple of things here. OK. All right. Very
well Thank you for that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I'm not sure who raised their hand first, but I'll go to Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Question first and then a comment. Another, looking at sort of a
geographic division, and how that's done is important, but are they also talking about service type? Like is
this focusing mainly on first and last mile, kinds of service to-LYNN GUISSINGER: Correct me if you hear something different, but I think they're focusing on what would
be considered local fixed-route service, which in my area may be easier to find. But I think when you get
into some of your areas, for instance, Shelley and others, define what's local and what's regional may get
tricky.
SHELLEY COOK: So it would encompass the first and last mile? Or it would allow communities to sort of
conceptualize the service that may work for their particular needs?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. So there's value in it. Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, one thing. I agree, and I'm glad you brought up the idea of conceptualizing how
the Board member remains involved. And Debra Baskett had put out a sort of white paper about that. Maybe
looking at that in terms of how it engaged the Directors in the service planning with the local councils.
I really hope that we're able to integrate the two, so we don't have sort of one group out there and the Board
member disengaged from that. So I really hope that, to the extent we're going to provide feedback, that
includes that piece of things.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree. Is that all you had? Yeah. OK. I'll just go across-- well, I'll go to John next.
Mr. McKay, what'd you have?
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you. Just for the sake of the audio record, Director Davidson has joined us.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, great. Welcome. Mr. Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure. And sorry, I wasn't able to ask this question during the prior discussion. Just to
confirm, so for the CFO and any other position, that decision is being made by the General Manager, is that
correct? So you will not have any input on that matter. So you're just informing us, letting us know how that
process is working?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Director Rosenthal. Thanks for the question. I mean, for all intents and purposes,
yes. All employees report to me and I report to you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK, fair enough. And then on these-- to get back to the current matter. So in terms of
these local councils-- forgive me. I'm only one month on the job, here. Can you kind of fill me in? What is
the genesis of these?
And I believe, General Manager Johnson, you talked about statute. So are these in actual law to where
these local organizations with local officials are tasked with giving feedback and direction to RTD, and they
have a certain amount of budget to do so? Where does that come from?
LYNN GUISSINGER: The budget comes from-- I'll jump in here first and answer what I've been hearing,
and then help me out, Miss Johnson. But the budget would come from RTD. And I think that the decisions,
again, it's pretty nebulous still. But the decisions would come back to the Board to approve.

But the idea is that they would have-- what they're looking for is a local Council that's closer to the citizens,
can more easily get feedback from the citizens. And really, I think what they're looking for is earlier feedback
into the service planning process. We tend to put together the service plans, and there's some reaching out
before that.
Again, correct me if I'm saying this wrong. But we tend to create a plan and take it out for public comment.
And I think they're wanting earlier and more consistent comments. So it may be that one of our proposals
would be-- if there are other ways to do that in a better way.
And then there's kind of a secondary, but important piece that I've heard them talking about, and heard
Elise talking about, which is that Coloradans don't tend to support transportation taxes and funding on the
big scale, state, regionally, but they do locally. So it might be another way to increase transit funding.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So this is a creature of the legislature that made us this?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's a discussion about a creature from the Accountability Committee, and whether it
then goes to the legislature or not, I don't know. It may be that it would just come to the Board to approve
or tweak or whatever it may be. That if the Board didn't approve it, they would go to the legislature. But
there's nothing in the statutes right now.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. So this is just a theory right now. This is just a proposal, ideas? OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: But I think they're moving towards a decision pretty soon.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then finally, my final thought is to consider these local councils focusing heavily
on FlexRide. And I know I've had discussions with some of you before on, how do we expand that to-especially in large lines where we have a lot of traffic to feed those.
But I just love the concept of FlexRide. I don't think we use it enough. And so I think maybe some of the
local councils could focus on, how do we expand those? And if they're concerned about getting service in
their local communities, how do you make it-- it seems to me like FlexRide is more flexible for their
communities. Just sort of throwing that out there for discussion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. You know, I think, that they would consider that part of-- again, the question
is, what's local? What's regional?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may just offer up. I think one thing that there's a tendency to do, we need to look
at mobility options holistically. And I was participating earlier this morning with the Denver South Employee
Transportation Champions. And as I talk to them, it's important that we look through the lens of what are
options available as opposed to fixating on fixed route. And I'm not saying, you guys are doing this, I'm
saying just in a general sense.
So right now, it's hard to discern what that may be because leveraging the notion of a service council, let's
see what the need is. It gets back to, what issue are we trying to solve? Would it make more sense to
leverage rideshare? Would it make more sense to have a cutaway? Would it make more sense to have a
30 passenger vehicle?
And so until we understand what we're talking about here, it's hard to discern what that may be. So when
we talk about service councils, first we need to talk about the anticipated ridership. Who are we looking to
move? What's the origin and destination? And what the schedule is, and all those other aspects come later
because with service planning, first and foremost, you start with the schedule. And based upon that
schedule, you discern the vehicle count, and then the other resources that come along with that.
So I think as we have discussions and have a broader understanding of what the intent is, then we can
discern what type of mobility options may address the issue that we're trying to mitigate. And more

specifically, as it relates to-- oh, there's Director Rosenthal. When we talk about the engagement of these
service councils, what I have gained from my interaction is that oftentimes we would comment as a fait
accompli.
And so basically, the notion behind all of this is talk to us about what it is that we need. And in doing so,
there could be some middle ground that's reached because right now, it appears as if we've come and say,
OK, so I am changing the first run out of the division from 4:07 to 4:19. These are going to be the time
points, and this is what it is.
As opposed to determining, does that make sense as we're trying to create transfer opportunities? Does it
make sense in reference to when somebody needs to be there? So I hope that helps. So it's evolving.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I'll preface my comments with saying that many of you know,
there are several bones of contention I have with the Accountability Committee. This is one of them. So,
yeah, Director Rosenthal, we put together service plans, send them out to all the stakeholders. Here's what
we're thinking.
Get input. When we get input, very often we tweak and adjust the service plans. Also very often, no one
says anything. So I understand the desire to be involved with input early on, and I'm OK with that. But more
important than what is a service council look like geographically, is what is their power? And I'm hearing
that there are several on the Accountability Committee that want these councils to actually make the service
plan, and in essence, spend the money and have control over that part of our budget, which is significant.
So to the extent that it ever goes that way-- and I haven't heard, I mean, I've heard that, I haven't seen it.
But to the extent they want to have that level of control, I'm obviously opposed. To the extent they want to
have input, and early input, into service plans, I'm all for that. But I'm afraid that that's not all that they want.
And I'll leave my comments there. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll take a quick stab at that too. And Miss Johnson can jump in. I think that as part of
what your staff is putting together, Miss Johnson, if we have ways of increasing local input earlier, that
might be helpful. I don't know. They're getting pretty far down this road.
But I think if we can restructure, in some way, to get input earlier. Basically, whatever we want to propose,
I guess-- I think you know this so much better than I do or we do. But whatever along those lines, we can
propose probably, like I say, is doing it soon is going to be the significant piece.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Madam Chair and Director Buzek for your comments. And
you're spot on, Director Guissinger, when you talk about getting their input sooner. Because what I've been
saying since I've arrived here, it should be a continual feedback loop. So we just don't get feedback during
service change because constantly when you do a service change, and that may be prescribed in the CBA.
But for all intents and purposes, when we talk about a service change, what are we trying to solve here? A
service change, for all intents and purposes, is to give our frontline operators an opportunity to select
different runs because we want to ensure that they have an opportunity to not be on the same run for a
continuous year. So I think that we've just sort of been mired in what we've always done, whether that's
good, bad, or indifferent.
But one thing that I would offer up, and what I've shared with staff, and you'll be getting communique in
forthcoming Board briefing packet is that we are starting the enhanced outreach. And Pauletta Tonilas
spoke to this because I really said to the team, that when we do a service change, let's see does that work.
Are we tweaking it? Let's hear from folks.

There's a myriad of different inputs that we need to use. I mean, it's from operators providing information to
us. Does it make sense with the time points or the layovers adequate? If we are in fact, driving through a
jurisdiction whereby you have a lot of individuals that are using mobility devices, the dwell time is going to
increase. So while we can do modeling, let's not just go with that. Let's talk to people to figure out what's
really working and what's not working.
So I think the opportunity here is in the enhanced stakeholder engagement. And while I recognize that
public officials and elected officials have a lot of input, I also believe it's important to go to where the people
are because these are the individuals that are actually utilizing the systems, that are standing there, waiting
for a bus to come, and may not understand on time performance when we say minus 1 or plus 5.
What does that really mean when we have these arbitrary-like goals? Because if, in fact, we have on time
performance 85% of the time, but I'm not meeting the needs of the customer, then that performance metric
is for naught. And so as we go through this process, that's what it's about, and that's what we're trying to
do.
And I am trying collectively with the team to change the culture around, how do we get input? And it doesn't
diminish what we know as subject matter experts. This just enhances our opportunity, in reference to being
a mobility provider of people.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And sorry to butt in here, but I'd like the Board to bear in mind that the 2020
census will dictate the boundaries of our districts. And there will be redistricting that we're going to be
starting on. And I think that should be taken into account as well if we were to move forward with these
because the way we were configured may change. And so I'm thinking that for them to rush through the
Accountability Committee with these recommendations might be premature. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thanks. Good point. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, just one quick follow up. And I just want to be clear that I am not saying I am opposed
to input from our communities. I think it's fantastic. I just don't want to have these councils become our de
facto Service Planning Department. And I think that could be hard to deal with. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think this is great input. I'm glad to hear that staff is working on it, Miss
Johnson. And I would just say that they're going to be moving much more quickly towards recommendations
because the Accountability Committee's plan is to end by July 1, although they have the authority to
continue longer.
And one of those other topics is Board governance. And the topics-- they haven't been on it recently, but
the discussion was, should we add some at large members to represent the whole district? Or should we
make this an appointed Board? Or should we make it nine people? There were these ideas that went
around.
But they're going to be circling back to that. I think that they're aiming to have decisions on that one maybe
in April or something. So I think we need a way to have a Board have a discussion for where we are on
that. So I guess that's another piece, Miss Johnson, that maybe you and I can circle back on and figure out.
Maybe it's a study session or there's something to-- there are a number of topics they're talking about.
We just got the recommendations, which I'll ask John or someone to send out today, for whatever CRRSA
(Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriation Act) money is left, that include lowering
fares in a pilot and changing the past programs. Some very interesting ideas, and I know that you have

staff working on some of those. But some of it, I guess, we just need to be thinking about how the Board,
certainly the governance pieces, can help respond. Does that makes sense?
DEBRA JOHNSON: You know, it does. And actually, we-- well, when I say we, the team and I-- we're going
to bring forward on March 2, a discussion item as relates to that because I want to be clear with all of you
all that I do think it's a collaborative effort. It's not up to staff to discern what moves forward. But wanted to
engage in dialogue around that because recognizing that there's been a myriad of ideas about a single fare
and things like that, you all have ideas, I'm certain as it pertains to that. So this isn't being done in a vacuum.
But more so, what we have to be cognizant of too, we have different type of services. And when you think
about it holistically, there's one aspect like the Flatiron Flyer, right? That's an over-the-road coach that gets
on the highway. And would it be fair to have that service cost a dollar when you're riding a 40-foot bus down
Colfax, going across potholes? That's not equitable service.
And so those are the types of things that we really have to think about while we want to ensure that we
want a simplistic fare. Or of course, and I know you are. I'm stating the obvious here. Recognizing that the
A Line may cost $10.50 to go to the airport. That couldn't be $1.00 and be equated with a local bus route
as well. And I know you guys know that, but I have to say what I need to say here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think this is great.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. And so basically, those are the things that we do want to have a discussion
around, right? And as it relates to governance, and I've said this before-- and Director Guissinger you've
heard this. I mean, I'm trying to figure out what is the issue we're trying to solve? Having worked at agencies
that has the Board directly elected by a constituency. I've worked for an agency that has a Board appointed
by governors, just by nature of being an elected official, you're appointed to the transit authority.
For all intents and purposes, what are we trying to solve here because it's still a policy body? So I'm not too
certain about how the policy body comes to be. Does that really matter? Are we trying to deal with the issue
as relates to, should there be eligibility requirements? Are we talking about people possessing acumen
related to the transportation space? Are we talking about, we need to have a transit customer represent the
actual views of a customer in and around the transit system?
So those are the things that I'm trying to wrap my mind around so I could be helpful in the discussion.
Because just saying that a Board needs to be elected or appointed or a community member really doesn't
get to the crux of the issue that we're trying to solve by qualifying it as governance. That's Debra Johnson's
opinion. It does not reflect that of the Regional Transportation District, OK?
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think that's all right. And I think that what would help, I think, would be-- maybe
it's the discussion item on March 2 or maybe it's a study session to get Board feedback. I think that this is
another outcome or potential outcome of the problems of trust with RTD. If you don't trust RTD, you don't
trust the Board, you think the Board needs to be changed.
I think we're all doing a lot of good stuff right now. Debra's bringing in a lot of change, a lot of good happening
there. I think the Board has been responsible for bringing in Debra, and for a lot of the changes that we're
making. And so I think we need to really think about, and some of this falls to Troy and me doing it. But
certainly, would love the support, the help from others in the ideas to kind of show all the good things we're
doing and where we are on it. So I guess it's a request to carve out some time. I don't know if March 2
discussion item would be enough, or if we need another.

DEBRA JOHNSON: That's what I was just thinking. Now that you said it, maybe it should be a study session.
So let me step back from that and we can have a dialogue. And I will yield the floor to you in the sense of
having conversations about what might work best because I'm not trying to dictate what happens.
I want you all to know that I want to be a partner in this because I think that's what's important. But perhaps
it is a study session that we do, and we don't do it as a discussion item. So I'm totally amenable to that. So
I'll stand down from that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And maybe the discussion item would be dealing with some of the things they're
recommending for CRRSA (Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriation Act) like the
fares and eco-passes, and maybe we have a study session for some of the governance issues. But
unfortunately, I have to keep adding meetings. But it's really becoming urgent type of timeline. Director
Buzek? No, you're done. Director Cook? You're muted.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thanks. No, you said it. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. Well, I've hogged all the other matters times. Does anybody else have
something to bring up? OK. John, is there more on our agenda? I believe-JOHN MCKAY: It's adjourning.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --before we adjourn? And if not, does anybody have a motion to adjourn?
VINCE BUZEK: Moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Second, Shelley. All in favor? Well, all in favor? aye. OK. Anyone opposed? No.
OK. We are adjourned. Thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Bye.

