## I. Planning and Development Committee

Chaired by Bill James

### A. Call to Order

Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 5:29 p.m.

Director Lasater was absent.

Staff Present:          Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Tara Bettale, Sarah Camacho, Rick Clarke, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Kevin Diviness, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Kim Heldman, Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Mike Nabhan, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Kirk Strand, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:        GB Arrington, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Nehemiah Hall, Sherman Hamilton, Julie McKenna, Lorna Moritz, Bob Rizzuto, Roger Sherman, Arleen Taniwaki, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner

### B. GM 2016 Tactical Plan from Strategic Planning Session

Interim General Manager Genova reminded the Board that on March 21, 2015 the Board met with the Senior Leadership Team (SLT) at the annual Advance to mutually agree on the top strategic goals for the agency in 2016.  The three top priorities that came out of the Advance were Fiscal Sustainability, Opening of Five FasTracks Rail and BRT Corridors in 2016, and Technology.  Interim General Manager Genova said his goal for the evening was to review the highlights of his tactical plan and receive input and feedback from the board.  He explained that after receiving feedback he would work with the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee to develop a more detailed action plan.  He noted that these strategic goals also drive the development of the budget for 2016.

Interim General Manager Genova introduced Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer, Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, and Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, who he asked to be at the table for questions.  He reviewed a Power Point Presentation with the Board that is available in the May 12, 2015 Planning and Development Committee Agenda Packet.

Interim General Manager Genova outlined the following items that would be his focus:

- Strategic Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability

o        Increased Operations and Maintenance Costs

o        Impact of New Fare Structure

o        Affordable Fares

o        Identification of New Revenue Sources

o        Increase in Existing Revenue Streams

o        Parking Revenue

o        Service Levels, Revenue Rates and Utilization of Unused Capacity (Ridership)

o        Avoiding “Mission Creep”

- Strategic Goal #2 – Opening of Five FasTracks Rail and BRT Corridors in 2016

o        Complete Projects On Time and Within Budget

o        Complete Integrated Testing and Pre-revenue Testing

o        Rail Activation

o        Marketing/Special Events/Communication/Community Partnering

o        Service Planning/Bus Operations/Integration

o        Staffing, Internal and External

- Strategic Goal #3 – Technology

o        Security

o        Private Partnering (Innovation)

o        Customer Facing

o        Prioritized Resources

o        Enhanced Services

o        Partnerships to Address:

§         Last Mile

§         Smart Technology/Smart Cards

§         Integration and Advancement (Holistic Approach)

§         Internal

Committee Chair James suggested that in relation to the Last Mile issue and partnerships that staff look at those operating in the arena of transportation demand management and our local jurisdictions.

Director Bagley shared that he read the full tactical plan submitted by Interim General Manager Genova.  He thinks that the meat put on the bones in the full plan really helped to identify all the components that make up the highlights reviewed by Interim General Manager Genova.  He said that the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee looks forward to working with Interim General Manager Genova on further developing the tactical plan.  The final plan must be completed in time for the full Board to approve it at the July 2015 Board Meeting.  He thanked Interim General Manager Genova and his staff for their efforts.

Director Folska noted that there was a recent I-225 Line event that Interim General Manager Genova was unable to attend but she wanted to let him know that at that event she shared what a privilege it was for her to work with the other Board members, staff, consultants, etc.  She appreciates what Interim General Manager Genova and staff are doing to move this agency forward.  Director Folska said that she has several focus areas that she wanted to comment on as follows:

- Wages – Director Folska recognized that while what Interim General Manager Genova said about needing to increase wages is true, she also hopes staff will maintain focus in the plan to eliminate redundancy.

- Pass Programs – Director Folska expressed her concern that when staff is looking at an Affordable Fare Pass program they will do so without evaluating the passes RTD currently offers.  She pointed out that at CU there are 105,000 students that pay $77 per semester for a CollegePass.  She wonders if there is some elasticity in that price point that could play a role in assisting with the cost of an Affordable Fare Pass program.

- Parking – Director Folska inquired if RTD was properly following our unsolicited proposal process properly with regards to the proposal RTD received regarding monetizing parking; it was her understanding that when RTD receives an unsolicited proposal it would be taken out to an RFP rather than staff just evaluating one.  She recommended that staff read a book called Sustainable Transportation by Jeffrey Tumlin as it will provide great information when RTD looks at the real cost of parking to our communities.

Interim General Manager Genova explained that when RTD receives an unsolicited proposal, the process is for staff to review it for merit prior to issuing an RFP.  If it is not determined to have merit than the process does not go further.  He explained that related to this unsolicited proposal staff felt they needed to do further research before issuing an RFP so it will be some time before it comes back to the Board.

- Communication Plan for Events – Director Folska said she is looking forward to see how this gets flushed out and a plan with defined details.

- Technology Private Partnering – Director Folska hopes that RTD makes it a requirement on the front end that applications developed for RTD are accessible on the front end.

Director Menten inquired about the timeline staff anticipated in reviewing the unsolicited proposal related to parking.  Interim General Manager Genova explained that staff was hoping to complete a detailed analysis this year.  There is not a schedule for when staff might bring it back to the Board for an RFP but will keep the Board updated throughout the year.

Director Menten noted that the tactical plan referenced replacing the handheld SmartCard readers in 2016. She wondered how many units we currently have and what the costs would be to replace.  She also asked if there were any alternatives to handheld readers.  Interim General Manager Genova commented that our technology is very similar to that of other transit agencies that have similar SmartCards and fare enforcement policies.   He explained that our device serves two functions: (1) provides a reading mechanism for the SmartCards and (2) fare enforcement (i.e. produces citations, communications with database to determine rider’s previous violations, etc).  He said that having a dual function complicates the devices we can use.  Interim General Manager Genova stated that the devices now are much less expensive than the originals purchased.  He noted that there is the option to use two devices as a fallback plan.  He stated that staff will do whatever is the most economic and cost effective.

Director Deadwyler asked if Interim General Manager Genova had begun to put any “meat on the bone” when it comes to looking at identifying new revenue sources.  She felt he skipped over that when going through the presentation.  Interim General Manager Genova apologized for missing that piece.  He said that he is looking at the following:

- Corporate Sponsorship and Naming Rights

- Monetizing Parking

- Evaluation of Pass Pricing

- Sale of Unused Assets

- Developing Shared Facilities

- Increasing Sales Tax Revenue through Audits and Sales and Use Tax Parity

Director Deadwyler expressed concern over the service changes when the new lines open.  She reminded everyone of the issues that happened with the opening of the W-Line.  She recognized that there were a lot of key learnings but she wants to make sure we do not take away service from our riders until we understand how the new lines are operating.

Director Solano inquired if staff was planning on looking at the public or private sector for partnerships to address the last mile issue.  He wonders if an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) would be necessary for these partnerships.  Interim General Manager Genova stated that it could be either as staff will be evaluating all options.  He said that if the partner is a public partner like a city or municipality we would need an IGA.  If it was with a private party we would enter into a contract with that entity.

Director Tobiassen commented that RTD needs to make sure any of our decisions related to monetizing parking mesh with the jurisdiction where the parking is located.

Director Archuleta suggested that as part of the marketing/special events/communication plan staff looks to attend the various fairs within each community.  He said that he hears from his community that we are not communicating with them and this might be a good way to improve that.  Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, noted that staff does have booths at various community fairs but welcomed any suggestions of community events.

Committee Chair James pointed out that there are budget limitations that might affect how many fairs staff is able to attend.  Interim General Manager Genova recognized that special events and public outreach is something included in the budget.

Chair Sisk remembers the Board needing to approve additional funding after the opening of the West Line to restore certain bus service that had previously been eliminated.  He is hoping that staff is anticipating this better and establishing a budget in advance of opening the Eagle project.  He said that he is very excited about pursuing applications to help passengers receive real-time arrival and departure information.  He thinks it will be very exciting to have that technology available.  He challenged staff to think broadly when it comes to technology applications.

Director Francone thanked Interim General Manager Genova and staff for putting together such a comprehensive first effort.  She said that when she speaks with people in her District, even though none of the openings are in her area people are quite proud of RTD’s accomplishments.  She wondered how staff defines successes as it relates to marketing and special events.  Scott Reed said it really depends on the goal of the event.  He stated that it is also a balancing act between focusing on each individual opening while talking about FasTracks as a whole and base operations; things like community involvement and earned media are good indications if something was successful, among other things.

Director Solano shared that he had a constituent call him about a FasTracks booth that was going to be at a fair in Thornton.  The constituent wondered why it was a FasTracks booth and not an RTD booth.  Director Solano said he did not know what to tell the constituent.  Scott Reed commented that this ties back to what he said before about a balancing act between FasTracks and operations.  At the fair in Thornton the majority of questions are about the FasTracks project; however, there is also information included about all of RTD’s service.  Scott Reed pointed out that the RTD logo is also incorporated in all FasTracks promotion.

Committee Chair James said it was worth noting that RTD is on the threshold of five openings.  It is easy for those not involved to think that a line opens and then we move on; however, this organization is all moving parts and those parts are going to be moving very rapidly next year.

#### 1. GM 2016 Tactical Plan from Strategic Planning Session

##### a. 05.04.15 Tactical Plan Memo to Board from Dave (01)

##### b. 05.12.15 2016 Tactical Plan Highlights Presentation to Board

##### c. GM Tactical Plan 2016 - Goal 1 Fiscal Sustainability (01)

##### d. GM Tactical Plan 2016 - Goal 2 Opening of FT and BRT

##### e. GM Tactical Plan 2016 - Goal 3 Technology (01)

### C. Recommended Actions

There were no recommended actions.

#### 1. RTD Best Practices

John Elias, Senior Policy Analyst and District Historian, reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the May 12, 2015 Planning and Development Committee Agenda Packet.  He explained that the purposes of the Best Practices were knowledge sharing to new employees, promoting collaboration at RTD, and industry-wide knowledge sharing.  He said that the goal is for this information to be valuable to RTD board members, executives, staff, and citizens as well as other transit agencies.  John Elias stated that this was an extensive process in which he and his colleague, Sarah Camacho, Planning Technical Communication Specialist, met with every department in the agency.

Director Folska asked when John Elias started at RTD and what was his original position.  John Elias said that he started in November, 2013 as the District Historian.  Director Folska commented that she had yet to see any of his work and asked if he could provide her with some samples.

Director Folska shared that one of the founding members of RTD, Bert Melcher, lived in her District.  She said that he has boxes and boxes of history pertaining to RTD.  Director Folska suggested that John Elias and Sarah Camacho meet with him.  John Elias noted that he had just recently been in contact with Mr. Melcher.  He stated that they had developed a retention policy that Sarah Camacho was working to implement.  Sarah Camacho explained that she had been working with the State Archive to allow RTD to transfer materials to them.  They have the ability to provide researchers which RTD does not have the budget for staff to do this in house.  She indicated that the State Archive actually has Mr. Melcher’s collection.  Director Folska encouraged staff to look at having some of Mr. Melcher’s artifacts on display.  She thought that would be a very neat thing to see.

Director Folska inquired if the Board Office was included as part of the process.  John Elias stated that they were not.  Director Folska encouraged him to revisit the Best Practices to include the Board Office.  She thinks the Board Office should always be included when a project is encompassing every department in the agency.  The Board Office has a lot of best practices that have been implemented for things like the New Board Member Orientation.  John Elias said the hope is that this is a real living document similar to a Wiki where people can submit their edits.  This is just the first salvo and hopefully the Best Practices just continue to incorporate more information.

Director Solano asked what staff meant by breaking down silos.  John Elias explained that sometimes collaboration or communication between departments can be difficult as people get so mission focused.  The goal is to foster a feeling of one agency instead of feeling divided by departments.  Director Solano pointed out that it is also important to bring outside influence to add to the conversation to avoid a group think mentality.

Director Francone echoed Director Folska’s comment about including the Board Office in the process.  She said that the orientation she recently completed was awesome in its magnitude.  Director Francone thinks that there is really some value there for the rest of the agency.  She wondered how large the Best Practices document is.  John Elias stated that the print version is 135 pages.  There is also a PDF version that is accessible as well as navigable.

Director Menten stated that in reviewing the presentation she did not see a lot of benefit to this project so she is looking forward to reading the complete document.  She asked staff to provide her a complete cost for this project, including things like salaries, benefits, etc.

Committee Chair James thanked staff for their presentation.

##### a. 20150512 Best Practices Board Presentation

#### 2. RTD TOD Assessment

Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Development and Planning Coordination, introduced the team that is conducting RTD’s Transit Oriented Development (TOD) Assessment.  The team is comprised of GB Arrington of GM Place Making, Lorna Moritz of TRA and Arleen Taniwaki of ArLand.  Bill Sirois asked GB Arrington to review the Power Point presentation included in the May 12, 2015 Planning and Development Committee Agenda Packet.

GB Arrington noted that this is the first of three briefings that he and his team will do with the Board.  The team are national experts in TOD while also have a deep local TOD knowledge.  GM Arrington said that they would begin their assessment with the following approach:

- Step 1: How is RTD Doing Relative To:

o        The opportunity

o        The market

o        Expectations (yours & your partners)

- Step 2: Evaluation Lens

o        National Best Practice – How does RTD stack-up

o        360 review of RTD TOD projects

o        Feedback from partners

- Step 3: Recommendations for Moving Forward:

o        What’s working well

o        What to borrow (tools, policies, structure)

o        What needs tweaking

GB Arrington stated that there were several key issues that they would be looking at: (1) Performance, (2) Evolving Landscape, (3) Time & Uncertainty, (4) Getting a “Fair” Return and (5) How to Define RTD TOD Success.

Director Lubow expressed her excitement for this project.  She believes this is such an apt time to be looking at this as we are right in the middle of FasTracks.  Director Lubow looks forward to seeing the team’s assessment.

Director Folska stated that she is so excited to be working with this team and cannot wait to see their recommendations.  She is excited to see what other agencies are doing.  She said that as it relates to the tactical plan reviewed by Interim General Manager Genova, she hopes that we can generate some income streams in perpetuity for RTD through development and leasing options.

Director Bagley noted that the whole issue of TOD is very interesting.  He thinks RTD has taken some great steps under the Transit Oriented Communities (TOC) division.  Director Bagley recognized that RTD is a creature of the State and as such, RTD has some rather significant constraints as to what we can do related to development.  RTD cannot acquire properties for TOD like some other jurisdiction can.  He reiterated that RTD cannot make land use decisions; that is up to our local partners.  He said that what RTD can do is facilitate cooperation and collaboration similar to what was done in Arvada.  He stated that the Board needs to understand its role in the TOD process.

GB Arrington shared that part of their process is to begin an inventory of the tools that RTD’s peer agencies use and how those have impacted their ability to shape development.  He said that sometimes he has recommended changes in legislation to improve the TOD process but he does not yet know if that will be applicable here.  Director Bagley noted that requesting alterations to current legislature is a potential opportunity; however, the Board needs to keep in mind the context within which RTD operates today as legislature does not change overnight.

Committee Chair James inquired if it was within the scope of work for the TOD assessment to look at the legal and political environment within which RTD operates and identify opportunities for improved legislation.  GB Arrington said it was a grey area within the scope; the goal of the project is to look at our regulations, look at industry best practices, and then look at what RTD has and has not been able to accomplish and develop a series of recommendations.  GB Arrington noted that the project would be limited by budget constraints.

Director Walker wondered what entities would be included in the external assessment.  Arleen Taniwaki said that they would be taking to entities involved with TOD in Arvada, the Alameda Stations, Sheridan Station, Lakewood, etc.  The goal is to talk not only to developers but really anyone involved (i.e. city agencies, attorneys, developers, transportation planners, etc).  Bill Sirois commented that staff really likes that this assessment is trying to get a 360 review.

Director Walker commented that in the recent Denver elections there were several people who were not reelected because they had a strong pro-development stance.  He said this shows how ever changing the political landscape can be as sometimes the population is pro-development and sometimes they are against.

Director Anderson shared that she recently attended a presentation by CDOT Executive Director Shailen Bhatt about the US36 project.  She thinks his message is very important for everyone on the Board to hear which is that these large scale projects cannot happen without proper long-term planning.  She stated that for the past 30 years the City of Arvada has worked hard to make sure they got public transportation as well as TOD.  It takes a lot of time, planning and long term dedication because these changes do not happen overnight.  She thanked GB Arrington and his team for all the work they have done for TOD.  GB Arrington seconded Director Anderson’s comment about the City of Arvada.  He has had a lot of clients but few that have had the passion, commitment, and breadth of support that the City of Arvada has; if he was doing a best practices for cities they would be at the top of his list.

Director Solano asked if the team had talked to the Planners for the City of Commerce City.  He represents the area around 70th and Colorado.  He wondered if perhaps GB Arrington or his team might have some words of wisdom for TOD in this area.  Director Solano expressed concern with the construction defect bill failing and the ability to build affordable housing as there are a lot of low income people in the area.  Bill Sirois said that staff has been actively involved with Commerce City and other communities along the North Metro Line as it relates to planning efforts for TOD.  He said that TOD does not usually happen until construction begins and the developers begin to get excited.  Bill Sirois noted that Adams County is very active in looking at ways to build more affordable housing and will continue to evaluate opportunities around the stations.

Director Francone asked how the TOD assessment might evaluate TOD in an area like her District where there is no rail.  She wonders if the assessment will go beyond just looking at rail and perhaps look at locations with bus service.  Bill Sirois stated that the assessment would include all forms of transit.  Examples of TOD happening without rail are already happening along the US36 Corridor.  He recognized that while this is not District N the lessons learned will be applicable to any site with transit.

Director Francone suggested that any potential changes in legislation that RTD pursues happen in conjunction with our Government Relations department and consultants.

Director Anderson wondered if the team had ever worked with an unincorporated area before as it relates to TOD.  GB Arrington said that he has worked with every flavor of government.  It is just about looking at the tools, market, policies, transit service, etc.  Bill Sirois noted that there have been several unincorporated areas such as Adams and Douglas County that have been active with TOD planning along various lines.  He noted that he has not seen a lot of effort from Jeffco in this area.

GB Arrington shared that in many communities such as Los Angeles, the transit agencies are also contributing to the costs of TOD which helps make it a priority.  He does not see RTD having any involvement of that magnitude in TOD going forward.

Director Folska commented that you do not need transit for a community to be pedestrian oriented.  She asked if GB Arrington could give an example of a remarkable TOD site in Los Angeles.  GB Arrington said a good example is Holly Street in Pasadena where an apartment was built with the station underneath.  He noted that California is very actively involved in funding TOD.

Committee Chair James thanked everyone for their work on TOD.  He looks forward to working together on this assessment.  He echoed Director Folska’s sentiments that perhaps these should not be called transit oriented but pedestrian oriented communities.  He believes this is an opportunity for our agency to contribute to the livability of our community.

##### a. TOD Assessment Presentation for 5.12

### E. Other Matters

Henry Stopplecamp, Senior Manager of Engineering, thought it was important to provide the Board with a follow-up of the 16th Street Mall Reconstruction.  He said that he and his team went through the files related to this project, even pulling information from the State Archives.  He shared that they found the original Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and agreement with UMTA to understand where the project started.  He offered to review this information one-on-one for any Director that was interested.

Henry Stopplecamp stated that the FTA was open to the possibility of using concrete or some other material in place of granite but we will need to go through a modified Environmental Impact process that will take approximately eight months to one year.  The City and Downtown Denver Partnership are supportive of using concrete for the transit lanes.  He shared that concrete will be tested at Civic Center in the upcoming weeks so people can see how it will look.

Henry Stopplecamp explained that staff is holding off on issuing an RFP for the transitway portion of the project.  An RFP has been issued for sidewalk improvements, utilities upgrades, bulb outs, etc.  The hope is to come back to the Planning and Development Committee June 2, 2015 with a recommendation to award a contract in the June/July timeframe.  Henry Stopplecamp noted that staff still anticipates spending approximately $1 million on maintenance but this could be higher due to all the rain.

Committee Chair James inquired as to a potential cost increase by segmenting procurement between the sidewalks and transitway.  Henry Stopplecamp stated that there should not be too much of an increase.  There may be an increase in costs for traffic control but in terms of the order of magnitude it is less than 1%.

Committee Chair James asked if conversations had been started with the historic preservation community.  Henry Stopplecamp said that the City has started the conversations with Historic Denver and the Historic Society.  He thinks it will be an uphill battle but unfortunately the mall is just not as functional as it should be.  He hopes that we can come to a resolution that makes all parties happy.

Director Anderson wondered if we would need to do a completely new EIS or if we could just do an Environmental Assessment (EA).  Henry Stopplecamp explained that we would be going through a modified EIS.  Bill Van Meter said that further conversations would be needed but staff does not expect that a major EA will be required.  Director Anderson asked staff to provide information on any additional costs associated with this.

Director Anderson remembers some information that was handed out by Director Archuleta that indicated the City would have extra costs due to the Board amending the IGA between RTD and the City for the 16th Street Mall Intersection Improvements.  She also expressed concern about the City being able to adequately police the contractor.  Henry Stopplecamp stated that he did not know what additional costs there might be for the City.  He said the issue was trying to ensure that payments happen to the contractor in a timely manner.  The city has set up a task force to tie in with RTD’s evaluation team to help with the issue.  He noted that as far as the contractor building an adequate structure there is no reason why RTD cannot work with the City to ensure that is taken care of.  RTD staff would not sign off on any invoices for substandard work.

Director Lubow asked for clarification about RTD’s grant application.  It is her understanding that we applied for a grant to reconstruct part of the mall with granite pavers but we have now gone back asking if we can do something else.  Henry Stopplecamp stated that was correct.  When RTD originally applied for the grant it was to reconstruct a portion of the mall transitway with granite pavers.  He shared that the FTA is willing to support a change if we can demonstrate that it makes more sense.  He believes that there are still challenges but it is worthwhile to pursue as a cheaper material like concrete will allow us to get more blocks done with lower annual maintenance costs.

Director Lubow inquired if it was true that the design was supposed to look like a serpent.  She wondered if we could do the same appearance in concrete.  Henry Stopplecamp said that if you look at it from above it is supposed to represent a diamondback rattlesnake.  He stated the same design could be achieved with concrete.

Director Solano asked who was responsible for maintaining the mall currently.  Henry Stopplecamp explained that RTD is responsible for maintaining the transitway, which we do through a third-party contractor, Gallegos Corp.  Director Solano wondered if we would still need a third-party if the FTA approved the concrete pavers.  Henry Stopplecamp stated that there would still be maintenance required for the transitway, it would just depend on how much.

Director Folska thought she heard Henry Stopplecamp mention that the 16th Street Mall had not yet been designated a historic landmark.  Henry Stopplecamp stated that is what he was told by the City of Denver.

Director Menten said it was her understanding that if the transitway was concrete we would have maintenance costs of about $5K instead of $1 million.  She inquired as to what entities my not be in support of concrete.  Henry Stopplecamp shared that Historic Denver and the State Historic Preservation office would be the organizations having the most opposition.  He said he was pleasantly surprised with the Downtown Denver Partnership’s support of doing something different.

Chair Sisk indicated that the Board Office conducted a webinar last week for APTA on Board Member Orientation and Onboarding.  He said that both he and Director Francone participated as well.  He thanked the Board Office staff, but especially Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board, for all their efforts.  He shared that it was listened to by a record number of APTA members.

### G. Adjourn

Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 7:45 p.m.