2022-04-21
Executive Committee Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: --see it's 12:03. Ah, had to wait for that. Sorry. I'm going to now call the executive
committee meeting of Thursday April 21, 2022 to order. It is now 12:03 PM.
Please mute your phones and whatever else you have unless you're recognized to speak. I'll now call the
roll. First, Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
VINCE BUZEK: And Second Vice Chair Catlin is in the emergency room. Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Treasurer Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: And I'm here. So yeah, good luck to Peggy and her husband on that. I hope everything's
OK.
Do we have any other Directors in attendance? I'm looking. I don't see any. Am I missing any other
directors? No.
I see our General Counsel, Melanie Snyder. I see our Board Ops Manager Barbara McManus. I see other
individuals from RTD-- Marie Snell, Randy Hunter, John McKay, Michael Davies, Mike Smith, and Ashley
Parrish. Welcome, everybody. Debra Johnson, our General Manager and CEO, in case you didn't know,
is not going to be here today. She is attending the National Advanced Technology Transit Vehicle
Advisory panel in Atlanta, Georgia.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That rolls right off your tongue, Vince.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, it does. I'm sure there's an acronym that's a hell of a lot easier. Anyway, I've been
waiting to-- I think I alluded to having a ad-hoc committee to explore zero-emission vehicles, their
integration and implementation. And so we're waiting for Debra to come back from this presentation and
seminar, because she'll get some of the newest and most updated information. I think we're going to have
a study session first and then maybe the ad-hoc committee. But I digress.
Next is our public comment section. I'd like to open public comments to anyone who would like to address
the committee. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or

press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press
star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. Barbara, were there any email
comments received for this afternoon's meeting?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
VINCE BUZEK: And are there any speakers in the queue to speak?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see no speakers.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. With no other participants in the queue, I'm going to close the public comment
period. And I'll go on to our sole action item. It's the April Board meeting agenda review. Is there a motion
to approve the April Board agenda to the board meeting on April 26?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Marjorie Sloan. And is there a second.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Troy Whitmore. All in favor, say ate.
ALL: Aye.
VINCE BUZEK: We're all in favor. Any opposed? Seeing none, that goes. Move to-- any discussion on
the agenda, first of all, I guess. We should've done it before the vote. But, no discussion? Good to go?
Cool.
The audit ad-hoc committee planed to present a discussion item in the committee report section.
However, seeing as Director Catlin, the ad-hoc Committee Chair, is absent today and cannot provide an
update, I think it would be best if we move that report to the May board meeting. I'm not sure if the Board
report is ready, and the Board Office has not received the final document for today's packet. So be on the
safe side I think we'll talk about that in May.
Any other comments at all on next week's board meeting agenda? No? And there were no votes, so that
moves forward unanimously. We've got one discussion item on our agenda, and that is our monthly
government relations report. Mr. Michael Davies, are you prepared to present your report?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair and members of the committee.

MICHAEL DAVIES: Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer. I have a very brief report for you
starting at the federal level, Congress has been on recess the last couple of weeks, so relatively quiet in
Congress. Staff is largely closely monitoring the appropriations process that's anticipated for fiscal year
'23. And that's anticipated to start roughly late May, early June. And so, that is a lot of our focus at the
federal level at this time.
Moving on to the state-- and that's where really a lot of the focus over the last month has been-- largely
tracking bills as they work themselves through the general assembly. It is certainly crunch time over there,
and they are trying to get through a lot of bills before deadlines. As an update on the two specific bills that
the board has taken a support position on, first with SB180-- and that is the fare-free transit funding bill-that bill passed the Senate yesterday. And so it has been introduced over into the House Energy and
Environment Committee. It is not on schedule in the House at this time, but has been introduced in the
committee. And we're waiting to see when that will receive its first hearing in the House.
And then, with regards to HB1026, this is the alternative transportation tax credit bill. It would offer tax
credits to employers that purchase transit passes among other modes of transit as well. That bill is still
stuck in the House Appropriations Committee.
The deadline really to move these bills is coming up very quickly. Not a clear understanding if that bill has
the support to be able to move out of the House and over to the Senate. So we're tracking that closely,
but that bill is still stuck in the House Appropriations Committee at this time.
That does it for the two updates on the bills. And then, just very briefly, on the local level, as mentioned in
the written report, our GM and CEO Debra Johnson did have an opportunity to speak at the Metro Mayors
Caucus alongside Shoshana Lew from CDOT and Doug Rex from DRCOG. And that was a productive
conversation and good presentation by our GM. And we are continuing to work closely with the Metro
Mayors Caucus, as they are involved in closely tracking the SB180, the fare-free transit bill in the General
Assembly.
So that does it for my report and happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you for the report, Michael. Are there any questions for Michael? Secretary
Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, I have one. We received a copy of the Metro Mayors letter about SB180, and
it did indicate support for full repayment of RTD's fares for the month of August. And I wondered if that
has any chance of being added with the hearings in the House?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Director. I haven't seen any indication yet that there will be an
amendment on that. I did notice that section of the letter from the Metro Mayors Caucus as well. And
certainly tracking that issue closely. But at this time, no indication if there would be an amendment or
support for that at this time.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. First Vice Chair Guissinger?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. Also about the Metro Mayors letter, it was nice to see their support. I don't
know if it'll take off or not, but I thought it was signed by the mayors. It would be nice if we sent back a
thank You maybe the Chair and I could sign it or something. And I didn't think we necessarily have to go
to the whole board for that and could just talk to the executive committee. Does that make sense?
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good to me. Everybody thumbs up. Troy, thumbs up? Yes. OK. Great.
Thanks for that suggestion. That's a good suggestion. And Michael, thanks so much for the regular
updates on the bill tracking stuff. That's very helpful. And I know it's a lot of work for you to do that, but we
do appreciate it.
Any other questions-LYNN GUISSINGER: I actually have one-VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I'm sorry, Lynn. Yeah. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: If I may. Michael-- and maybe I should know this, but in your report you mentioned
that the FTA annual 2022 disbursements would be going out and that they're used for maintenance. I
know in our budget we were budgeting to clear up that backlog. Was this money part of what we were
budgeting towards that-- do you know?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. So the background on that apportionment notice from FTA that was the official
full year apportionment notice. If you recall, the omnibus Appropriations Act was enacted, and that really
approved the appropriations to go to the full year. Up until then it had been partial year apportionment
based on last year's levels. This would be Fast Act levels.
And so, once the IIJA or Infrastructure Investment Jobs Act was signed into law, that increased some of
those formula fundings. And so, FTA wasn't able to release the full apportionment until Congress did the
omnibus Appropriations Act to adhere funding levels to the IIJA. So that is why that was released-- just
the flow of Congress moving.
That bill, the IIJA did increase funding for those formula programs by about 30%. And so, the
apportionment notices that went out to RTD was about 30% higher than the same funding for last year.
So those formula funding grant programs, the largest being the urbanized area formula funding grant
program, that funding generally is eligible for operating maintenance. It cannot be spent on salaries, but it
is for operating maintenance.
It is also not eligible for new capital construction. Again, it's really for operating maintenance construction.
Those can be capital programs but on the maintenance side of the of the book.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And do you know if the extra 30% is money that we budgeted in our budget this
year? Or that might be a question for Doug.

MICHAEL DAVIES: I think that's a question for Doug. From what I recall, I don't think we anticipated that
the IIJA would be signed for last year's budget. For our current budget we were tracking with the funding
levels in the FAST Act. But yeah, I think that would be a question for Doug to confirm.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Great.
VINCE BUZEK: Does that conclude your questions?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Perfect. Thanks so much. Thanks again, Michael.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Next, we're going to move on to other matters. The first is the reinstatement of board
travel budgets. The Board Office and I are drafting a recommended action that will be introduced at the
May 10 Finance and Planning Committee meeting. That resolution, if approved, will return $3,000 for
each director and $3,750 for the chair to be used for out-of-district travel-related expenses in 2022.
Historically, each director has received $6,000 for travel and the chair has received $7,500 per year. But
as this is a partial reinstatement for June through December, the travel budget restoration will only be
50% of the traditional yearly amount. And as there are APTA and revolution and other things that are
cropping up and returning to in-person, we thought it prudent to reinstate that in case any of the directors
want to use some of this for their travel and training. Are there any questions from anybody about that?
OK, cool.
Next on the other matter agenda is our post-COVID meeting expectations. So I know a lot of people are
eager to get back to in-person meetings. One of the biggest impediments to us doing that at Blake is the
work that's being done on our TND. That's the big conference room in the basement that we used to meet
in person at.
They've done a lot of work. They've changed lights, and wiring, and things like that. But the big thing
that's still ongoing is upgrading all of the IT stuff-- all the technology infrastructure that is there that helps
us do our meetings and, if we go back in person, will allow us to have people appear virtually for
comments and things like that. My understanding is we're looking at fall. I've heard October as a possible
time that this could be completed. But it's again dependent upon supply chain issues and things like that.
So that's my understanding of what's going on with the return to in-person meetings. Does anybody have
any questions or comments about in-person? First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I wonder if we could start with doing our committee meetings in person and do them
upstairs in the board conference room or whatever the next biggest conference room would be and still
Zoom them for public. But since it's a smaller group typically, I thought maybe we could start with that.

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. And the board office conference room is available. Ms McManus, I believe there
are still some technology issues there for streaming, is that correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, yes. I know that folks were thinking that we might move into a smaller room
once we resume business as usual. But the smaller rooms, A, in that scenario, do not allow for any public
to attend-- not that that will be happening any time soon. And if we did meet a five-person committee in
the board conference room or a seven-person committee in conference room A downstairs, just under the
current guidelines, we would still have to have our devices in front of us. And the meeting would look
exactly the way it's looking right now.
So if folks wanted to attend in that way, we could. I had this discussion in my one on one with Debra as
well. And having those meetings, starting at 5:30 as they do, would also bring in the need for other
resources in the building. So we're looking at what all of those components look like, just so we have a
backup plan between now and then. But again, it's not just add water.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah. Mr. Chair, if I may, I'm kind of needing to depart to get back in so I don't miss
the heart of this next meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure.
TROY WHITMORE: I think we're OK on action items. And we're all right with quorum. Is that correct,
Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
TROY WHITMORE:
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. All right. Thank you for understanding. I am going to depart. Have a good
day, guys.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Troy. Goodbye.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Bye Troy.
VINCE BUZEK: And Lynn, do you have more questions, or?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just-- I wasn't clear. You said we'd be in front of our computers in terms of zooming
the meeting, is that what you mean?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. There's no way to capture the whole room. The technology it's not there to
capture the whole room at this point. So any of the meetings would look exactly like as if you were home,
only you would all be in the same room in the same building.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, it might be worth trying. Our other option is to wait till the basement is
finished, is that what you're saying?

TROY WHITMORE: Mm-hmm.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Because then we could capture the room?
BARBARA MCMANUS: You would be able to capture the room. You would be able to capture each of the
respective speakers. And also, it would look like it was before COVID, where we would capture the whole
chamber. But we also would have the Zoom component as well, because we'll be continuing with both
venues moving forward. And then the board offices thought was, the committees of five and seven would
run across the top of the dais just for convenience sake of running the meeting and capturing that video
when it's up and running. And then the full board meeting, of course, will be whatever the Chair's
assigned seats are, since we haven't gone through that exercise this year, since we're not meeting in
person.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess, I'll let others speak if they have-- but the hope with going to smaller
committees was to get better discussions. So I don't love the dais. So I don't know if there's a way to
brainstorm or try out with a smaller meeting and just see what we can put together. It's just a thought.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I mean, if we're anticipating not ever bringing the public back, that's one decision.
We could reconfigure the room in some way, shape, or form. We aren't making any changes to the
furniture per se on the dais, because there is no budget for that. So if the smaller committees seem like
they're going to be moving forward and successful, then we can look at reconfiguring the furniture as we
move down the road and budget allows us to replace what we have.
VINCE BUZEK: So my understanding is if you use the board office conference room, everybody's just
going to be on Zoom. But still sometimes-- and Lynn, I think I agree that-- there's a better synergy when
people are together before and after meetings and things like that. So if there's any way-- Barbara, I
guess my question would be if that were something-- and I think we should leave it to the committee
chairs to have this discussion and decide among the committee members what they want to do. I don't
know if that's appropriate or not, Melanie, but that committee chairs could figure it out. But I think they
would need to be armed with knowledge about what that looks like.
What does entail in terms of staffing, feeding, security-BARBARA MCMANUS: Budget.
VINCE BUZEK: Janitorial. What kind of budget impact might that have if a committee wanted to meet in
person? So if there's any way to get a thumbnail idea of what that looks like, and then we can present it to
the committee chairs for their consideration if they wanted to move forward or not.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Cool. Does that work, Lynn? Yeah. OK. Any other questions on the post-COVID meeting
expectations or comments? OK.

Seeing none, I'll move on to the last one. That's the board retreat summary. And I think just recently we've
all received the summary prepared by CDR associates. I know I've taken a cursory look at it, and it looked
OK. I know First Vice Chair Guissinger had some comments and made some modifications to more
accurately reflect what was happening. So I guess the real question for us to consider, as we move
forward, is what do we do with that now, right? What's the plan?
And I think, as I said at the retreat, it appears to me that there are some things, some ideas, that are more
administrative in nature and can be implemented without board action. Then there are some other
changes that are more critical that might need board action for example, and even bylaw changes as well.
So I'm going to be reaching out to each of you individually to talk about the process of going through all of
those things we talk about-- all the list of ideas and concerns and so forth-- and how we can segregate
those into two pots.
One pot is the administrative stuff that hopefully we can change and put into place fairly easily. And the
other is the stuff that's going to need more board consideration. And hopefully we can come back at the
next month's meeting and talk in more detail about what those things are that we think need board action
and what the plan is going to be to move those forward. I'd like to-- if it needs a recommended action to
come out of the executive committee for the board's consideration, I'd like to get that hopefully in the June
timeline. As we progress into the summer and we move farther-- there's no meetings in August-- and as
you get into September, this is an election year, and I think a lot of people are going to be tied up and
busy thinking along those lines. So the more we can get pushed into the May, June, July time frame the
better.
Any other-- Oh, Ms McManus, I see your hand is raised.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. Just to tag on to that. I know that Director Guissinger and Director Sloan,
we have made all of the administrative changes that we talked about in the bylaws. And then there are
some substantive changes that are on the table for changes.
And we decided to wait until after the retreat to see if anything came up that needed to be changed and/or
added based on our conversations and the outcomes of the retreat in making the bylaw changes. And it's
my hope, because of some of the reasons that Chair Buzek just brought up, that we can work diligently
on that, get it reviewed by legal, and bring that forward for board action in July, since there are no
meetings in August and it is going to be a very busy fall. So I would like this committee to entertain that
timeline.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And this is along the same lines that Barbara mentioned, and you were talking about
items that need board action. One of the changes that Lynn and I had worked on-- and I believe it's about
ready-- was specifically approved of essentially at the retreat and ended up in the notes of the meeting.
And that is informal meetings for purposes of a smaller group in compliance with the Open Meetings Act.
That one, in particular, is ready to go.

There are some other more minor items that Lynn and I were talking about, that I don't think would take
more than a concentrated focus-- us in one phone call, we could probably get them to the board office for
legal review and incorporating them into the guidelines. And I would hope we can rely on the board office
for what items need bylaw changes and what items can simply just be incorporated into the guidelines.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. And Barbara, your hand's up.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So that sounds like a good plan. In terms of some of the conversations that we've
had with the meetings of small groups, I think that we have to spend some time and work on what that
looks like. Because any of those small group meetings look exactly like every other meeting.
MARJORIE SLOAN: In what way do you mean look like every other meeting? The agenda or the
location? I was thinking we would not need to Zoom them, but we could make the public aware of notice
and can be present. So what do you mean by look like the other meeting?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I mean, we have certain requirements. And Melanie, do you want to speak
to this in more detail, because you and I have had this conversation over time as well.
MELANIE SYNDER: Yes. Mr Chair, if I may.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
MELANIE SYNDER: Yeah. I think it's important to keep in mind you've got open meetings requirements,
and then you have logistical and operational issues. And Barbara, I'm going to defer to you on the latter.
For open meetings purposes, you just have to notice the meeting agenda in advance and make it
available and open to the public or the legal requirements.
VINCE BUZEK: So there's no-- we have no legal obligation under the Open Meetings Law to Zoom it or
broadcast in any way, as long as we give notice of its location, and subject matter, and all that.
MELANIE SYNDER: And the opportunity to allow the public to attend. So the venue would have to be-you'd have to be able to let the public access that.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Thanks for the clarification.
MELANIE SYNDER: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Marjorie, did you have any more questions?
MARJORIE SLOAN: No, that was it. I just was unsure about "look like." Because these will be informal. It
can be an expression of the topic of the meeting. I'm not sure we were contemplating an agenda for each
of the meetings. But it sounds like they really are not going to mimic committee meetings or board
meetings.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, in terms of inviting the public, how would we do that if we're not making it
accessible to the public? Via Zoom or however else we're looking at it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: They'd have to come, I guess, right? I mean, we could just say it's at Panera or
something if anybody wants to come.
VINCE BUZEK: Well, let's work through that and make sure that legal-- that Melanie-- I'm sorry I referred
to you as legal, Melanie. You're right there. Make sure that Melanie says, OK, sounds good, and then let's
get that going. Along with the other bylaw changes-- so we come back next month in executive session.
I'd like to have a really firm idea of what we're going to look at for bylaw changes. And ultimately, if this
one with smaller meetings is ready to roll, let's get it into recommended action format and roll it out maybe
in a May operations committee meeting if that's possible.
The sooner the better. And I think I prefer, personally, the idea of breaking things out into separate
recommended actions, instead of putting all of your bylaw changes into one vote. If somebody wants to
sink one of the items in the boat, everything goes away. So maybe we should think about how we
approach that as well. But yeah, that sounds good. And I hope the timeline can work. We need to get
moving-- some things we need to fix. Yes, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I wonder if that should go to operations or back to our executive committee if it's
about bylaw changes and things.
VINCE BUZEK: I think we've got to-- we have to run it through a committee, don't we? Have to have
committee and then board-- is that-LYNN GUISSINGER: This one doesn't count?
VINCE BUZEK: I don't know. Melanie?
MELANIE SYNDER: I think you could initiate the recommended action in the executive committee.
VINCE BUZEK: And then take it right to the board?
MELANIE SYNDER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, cool. Let's do that then. Yeah. Excellent, sorry.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Cool. OK. So anything else on the board retreat summary and what the kind of thumbnail sketch of the
plan is? Good. Any other matters to come before the executive committee? Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, I am just very chatty today. I have two items. The easy one is what is the
status of the proposal for free fares on Election Day? I know we asked for further data on that, but we
were also told we need to move. Is that on a proposed agenda for the summer?

VINCE BUZEK: And Barbara, have you heard anything about the finance committee taking that up?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, nothing formal. I haven't seen anything formal yet. But I will take a peek in
the look ahead and see if anything has been added since our last meeting. I think we have another lookahead meeting later today, so I can find out and let everybody know.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. If you find something out, you can just email the executive committee. That'd be
great.
MARJORIE SLOAN: OK, and I have another item as well, but I see First-- Lynn-VINCE BUZEK: Lynn
MARJORIE SLOAN: --has her hand up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just, I think Michael Davies is still here. Did I see it in your report that you're
pursuing that issue with the Secretary of State's office? Or am I making that up?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, that's correct and with the County Clerks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Cool. Is that good, Marjorie?
MARJORIE SLOAN: For that one. And I have a second item. And that has to do with the resolution
concerning our commitment to provide a welcoming transit experience. And we have committed in there
to engage in stakeholder partnerships. And I've talked about this with you, I think, and other people. I
don't see this being accomplished unless we have someone who is organizing and addressing the need
to talk to the jurisdictional leaders out in the district.
For instance, I know there is activity towards scheduling tours of Union Station. And I think that's a good
thing. But I don't think that is-- in my mind, the primary intent of this resolution is to actually work with our
localities. And before we can do that, we need to have some sense of what it is RTD needs, what it is
RTD can offer in working together, and what should we ask the localities for.
One example of what we could do is to put together short dog and pony show for city council meetings,
county commissioner meetings, with a combination of staff and board members, presenting the situation,
presenting our RTD's dilemma, and asking for how we can work together. And I don't see how individual
board members can actually do that. And I also see the need for consistency. So I'm hoping some help
from CRL or some other means to put this program together and in action. We've made a significant
commitment. I feel it's important for us to follow through.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good comments. And maybe CRL might be the resource for us to begin that
process. But as a director of a district, you've got contacts with the electeds in your district. And maybe
the board office can help put something together or coordinate scheduling with the general manager's

office as well. But you're right, there are probably a lot of ways to go about getting this done, but one
consistent method would be preferred. So Ms McManus, you and I, at our next week's meeting, let's put
that on the agenda for you and how to talk about it, see what we can come up with, and Secretary Sloan,
we'll get back to you guys ASAP.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good.
VINCE BUZEK: We'll put you in charge, Marj. OK, cool. Ms. McManus, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I would like Michael Davies to speak to where we are in the procurement of a
local government solution I'm going to call it. Because it's a little bit of a different contract than we've had
in the past. Right now, CRL associates is retained through June through a contract extension. But we
went out to RFP. And Michael, if you could let us know where we are in that process, so that we some
sort of a timeline to dovetail some of the work the directors want to move forward with.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, certainly. I would say that we're still in a blackout period. So I don't think it's
appropriate to offer too much information. And to that point, I don't know if I have a good timeline to
answer your question. But we'll certainly follow up as soon as I do.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Is the RFP closed?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, the bidding the bidding process was closed.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Good point, Barbara. Thanks. OK, anything else? Any other matters from anybody? No?
OK, it's 12:40 PM, and we are adjourned. Thanks, everybody for being here, helping, and participating.
Have a great weekend.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.

