2021-09-14
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Part 2
KATE WILLIAMS: Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that you return to the meeting now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Glad to see you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I'm not going to call roll. I'm going to assume that everybody is getting back as
quickly as they can. The next discussion item on our agenda this evening is the transit asset management
plan update. Mr. Lou Cripps is going to be presenting that update. Mr. Cripps.
LOU CRIPPS: Thank you. Can you hear me OK?
KATE WILLIAMS: I hear you just fine.
LOU CRIPPS: OK, great. Can everyone see my slides?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No
KATE WILLIAMS: No, sir, we do not see your slides. We see your face but not your slides.
LOU CRIPPS: Let me try this again
KATE WILLIAMS: There, it says, Lou Cripps has started screen sharing.
All rightâ€”
LOU CRIPPS: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: --you're up.
LOU CRIPPS: All right, thank you. Good evening, I'm Lou Cripps. I'm the Sr. Manager for Asset
Management. Tonight I'm going to go over what I believe is really important. It's-- we're going to emphasize

a message that, from FDA Administrator Nuria Fernandez, that she gave during her open remarks at this
year's Transit Asset Management/ State of Good Repair Roundtable.
Her message really centered around the connection between Transit Asset Management systems and our
agency backlogs. Tonight, my plan is to kind of answer these five high level questions. Those questions
being, what is the federal requirement? Why is there a requirement? What's RTD's backlog? What path
does RTD take and then how does RTD balance preservation and expansion?
So, before I moved to this next slide, I wanted to point out. I've got this kind of red box in the lower right
hand corner over here. Throughout the presentation I tried to include pertinent information to you, as Board
members and policymakers, in that red box down there. So, what is the federal requirement? I know we've
covered this before. Simply put, it's to have a plan for the District's existing assets. And the plan must
contain the nine elements listed on the left hand side or in those red boxes.
Again, most of the Board has already heard me talk about these nine elements and previous updates, so I
won't spend a lot of time there. But before I move on to the next slide, I did want to mention the importance
of that highlighted text there about implementing the agency's Transit Asset Management plan and the
agency's Transit safety plan. So, why are those statements really important?
It's because the FDA is actually-- they believe that there's a strong connection between asset management
and safety management systems. More specifically, a connection between backlog in the likelihood of
safety related events. So, I'm sure you're starting to see the intent of the federal regulation. The intent is
pretty obvious, right. The question is, why is there a federal requirement?
The requirement exists because there's more than $100 million in backlogs across public transit. So I look
at this as, when the old industry leadership failed to fulfill their responsibility-- I'm sorry it's $100 billion I
misspoke there. So, when old industry leadership kind of failed to fulfill their responsibility, legislation had
to step in and impose desired outcomes. It was a moment of clarity when the legislators realized that
agencies were waiting for federal money to come in and bail them out of poor investment practices.
So the FDA has said on several occasions, and it even highlights it in the final rule, that there will not be
enough federal funding for agencies and we need to change our practices. Even if we look at the
infrastructure bill, the set asides for transit, it won't cover the $100 billion in backlog. Again, it was a really
key point that the FDA administrator Fernandez emphasized her concerns were over this growing backlog.
So, how did we get here? Is probably the next question.
It's because public transit agencies have not really been doing acceptable level of strategic planning. We've
probably not been making data driven decisions, we're not acting as stewards of public assets. You're
probably wondering, and I'm sure you've peaked ahead to, how much is RTD's backlog? RTD's backlogs
are around $290 million. As I'm sure you were aware, RTD has delivered a lot of really large scale
infrastructure upgrades over the last two decades, majority of them in rail.

And as fast as they were delivered, they'll be coming due for renewals and replacements. This is going to
create a bow wave of coming investment needs. So, maybe the question that we could be asking is, have
we built beyond the District's ability to keep the transit system, as a whole, in a state of good repair? The
$290 million in backlog suggests that our priorities have been, and continue to be, on system expansion
and coverage.
Maybe we could also highlight that it's a rail focused investment on top of a year old bus company. So,
sometimes we need to remember or think about all those other pieces of the organization that we don't
typically see or think about. We've got over 4,500 buses, we've got three bus garages and one support
facility.
With in-service dates between 1976 and 1988, we got hundreds of pieces of maintenance, fabrication,
machining, cleaning equipment. A few 100 support fleet vehicles, technology equipment, operational,
corporate hardware, software. So, the message that I'd like you to take away is that RTD really has to have
a detailed plan and funding strategy for our existing assets, before we seek to onboard new assets. So,
how do we start to detail that plan?
Maybe it's-- or, how will this knowledge change RTD's current trajectory? Well, I think in short it has to be,
to act as stewards of the assets, or strategically balanced preservation and expansion. So using a time
example for some context, if we could spend $10 per minute 24 hours a day, seven days a week, just on
our current backlog it would take us over 55 years just to get the organization back to zero. That's on top
of a fully funded asset management plan.
I know we've discussed RTD will have a lot of new assets, kind of ending life at the rate they were delivered.
So, with the current trajectory, the midterm financial plan will be overshadowed by the backlog of assets
and deferred maintenance. When that happens, the agency will have to rely on safety and risk management
systems to act as kind of our second line of defense or triage, that comes with the degradation of all the
assets. So once we get into that situation, the agency enters into kind of this repetitive cycle of crisis
management.
At that point, as a Board, your options and the impact to the constituents is greatly reduced, possibly even
eliminated. So as you read through this kind of list on the left side of the screen here, I just want to say that
we need to understand that the primary focus since 2004 has been on expansion. The decisions were not
made out of malice, what I'm describing here is an opportunity cost to saying, yes, to expansion for the last
20 years.
So, let's take a look at the opportunities that lie ahead. If we align ourselves to the General Manager's
strategy to deliver on our mission, values, and success outcomes, that aligns with the FTA's requirement
to actively reduce the backlog. If we kind of look at this maybe as, RTD rallies around CEOs Johnson's
newly defined North Star here, in doing so, RTD takes a difficult path. We'll have to stay focused, It will
require discipline in our actions, and there's going to be continued outside pressure.

But, it's my belief that no one knows public transportation in Denver better than RTD, better than the staff,
better than the Board. So, that we just have to act as stewards of public transportation assets. This means
the agency might have to default to preservation when faced with those trade offs or dilemmas. So, taking
the stewardship idea one step further, how does RTD balance preservation and continued pressure to
expand? It seems overly simple, but the first step, I think, is to really understand what the agency is saying
no to, right.
Saying, yes, is saying no to all other alternatives. There's an opportunity cost to every decision. I know
we've talked about this, we've touched on the two ideas in previous updates. I've already covered what
RTD has kind of this-- historically said yes to, that's on the left side here. It's large scale infrastructure
improvements and this was the primary intent to fast track. So, we delivered on the goal. Now, RTD
considers Northwest Rail line, electrification of bus fleets, trading parking lots for transit oriented
development.
Leadership will be faced with difficult decisions that have consequences and trade offs that have to be
considered. And I'm not in a role, I'm not debating on whether or not these initiatives are good or bad. I'm
just asking that we make a concerted effort to create a plan and a funding strategy for our existing assets,
they go together. We can imagine the future and we have to plan for the future. The public is really, I think,
expecting that from us. They've outsourced the care of critical public infrastructure to RTD, so we kind of
have that role to fulfill.
This brings us back to the final slide here, review, what is the requirement? It's to have a plan for our assets.
Why is there a requirement? Because nationwide, there's $100 billion in backlog and it's growing. RTD
backlog is around $290 million, that's a huge number. How does RTD change the course? We just have to
start thinking about strategically balancing preservation and expansion. And then, how do we balance that?
It's to fully understand what's included in the no.
I'll be back probably next month to give everybody an update on the transit asset management plan that
the organization is developing. I would like to kind of end this saying, thank you. Thank you for your time,
thank you for your service to the community. And equally important, I want to say thanks to the talented
and hardworking members of the Asset Management Division. Thanks for your time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Cripps. We appreciate your work and the clarity of your presentation. I
think that we can go around, I see hands coming up already, so don't leave the room yet, Mr. Cripps.
Director Lewis I see you first.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I just have a deep appreciation for this presentation and I was a
bit taken aback at the number, the $290. I thought it was around $150 million and $200. And so, those
numbers are certainly sobering and I'd love to see us-- well, I appreciate that we're going to get regular
updates in this way because I think this is a conversation we must continue to have as a Board.

But I am curious how we might get the same information into the hands of our stakeholders so that they
understand, right, what it is that we are balancing and what it is that we're grappling with. As folks are asking
about and requesting more expansion, what it really means to expand and how that is going to mean loss
in other areas. And so, it's just-- I just wanted to say thank you for this presentation. And I hope we are
expanding our conversation with stakeholders so that they understand what we're juggling here. So, well
done. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. You suggesting we get a billboard maybe up on I-36 there,
that has this information on it? Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Cripps, it's a really informative presentation.
It certainly-- perhaps might have been helpful. I'm glad we had it and maybe we should get it before we
take votes on studies, multibillion dollar studies. And my question is related, which is, how much of our
backlog is FasTracks money versus how much of our backlog is not? Knowing that we as a Board have a
discretionary, effectively, a discretionary FasTracks fund, which we might be able to use to maintain a state
of good repair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Cripps
LOU CRIPPS: This is Lou Cripps, Senior Manager, Asset Management. Director Dishell, we actually don't
separate that out in the asset management plan. Because the way that assets are delivered, they're handed
off to the base system upon delivery. So, they're constructed under the FasTracks banner, if you will. But
then, they're handed over to the base system for operations and maintenance. So they're not separated in
the plan.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair, just to add further clarity to Mr. Cripps point. When we
collectively are leveraging dollars as it relates to our assets collectively and as we look at the Federal Transit
Administration trying to keep things in a state of good repair, there's no delineation collectively. So we have
the plan wholeheartedly as it relates to all of our assets.
And so, to the point that you raise, Director Dishell, there's not the delineation from whereby we're looking
at the useful life of said asset and when we should be doing an overhaul, if that's tied specifically to a
capitalized program that came into effect. Because now, it's operating and it's treated as such.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. So just to put a verified point on it, which is to say that we have a backlog
[INAUDIBLE] asset management plan that, even if we wanted to, let's say, OK, 2021 this is it. At this next
asset, we could not use FISA funds for that next asset, even if we wanted to because that asset gets
delivered to the base system once it is constructed. So by the time we're maintaining it, it would no longer
be eligible for FISA funds.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Director Dishell, that was a policy decision by this Board relative to that FasTracks
investment savings account, right. And so, I believe that's a decision collectively by the Board and I would

ask Mr. MacLeod who's on the call, to provide further clarity as relates to that because that's more along
the financial aspect. So, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Appreciate the question, absolutely
that's true. That was the construct by the former Board that set that up to try to set aside funding that was
generated through certain purposes, to accomplish additional FasTracks build out projects. So, yeah, it's
really an internal decision policy, decision as to how that funding gets spent.
As General Manager Johnson referred to, it's really, we look at it as a whole and we will divide that out
when we discuss the mid-term financial plan in October. Just to see the impact, but essentially, the base
system can fund the can fund FasTracks but not vise versa. So we have some flexibility there as to how
we use the funding.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. $290 million in the grand scheme of things, given the size of our
tax base, is not that much money. Where the district has its biggest problem is, we don't have a broad
enough tax base in our budget to cover what needs to be covered.
And so, I suppose that should be one of our first orders of business, is to figure out how to raise more
money each year. And that's why I've previously talked about the fact that CDOT has overcome that
problem by using fees. And we need to take a long, hard look at setting up a fee structure to help pay for
transit. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Appreciate that. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Right, and I'm not trying to belabor this, but it's going to come across that way. So a
couple of Directors brought up, including yourself, Madam Chair, alluding to the Northwest Rail line and I
just want to make-- and really clarify this. So, the $8 million that we just spent, I mean that's basically-- that
would not be-- we cannot allocate that for repairs to address this $290 million. Isn't that isn't that correct?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, we could allocate that funding. So, any money that's in
the FISA-- and this $8 million is coming from the FISA to fund that study. We can use that to purchase
assets or there's also a fund swap, right, so we can use that money to pay for FasTracks operations and
then use other funding to pay for operations and Maintenance. What you'll see when we talk through the
MTFP, is FasTracks is limited with the available funding that they have because of their high debt level.

So, the base system is able to subsidize FasTracks in those certain situations. But to the extent that the
FISA money becomes available if the Board decides to do that we can use it, basically, for operations or
capital on the FasTracks side or base. Actually, just FasTracks side, I'm sorry, it's FasTracks money.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And by FasTracks you mean, not just that was built that year under that FasTracks
program, like the Southeast and etc. You're talking about the entire light rail system, is that right?
DOUG MACLEOD: Just really the FasTracks portion of the light rail. So, it would be the West line Southeast
rail extension, any portions that were built with FasTracks money. Because with the FasTracks funding, we
have to-- the FasTracks funding cannot be used to fund anything on the base side.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I guess, you know, and I have complained before about some of our stations looking
a bit shabby and needing repair. Particularly the Dayton station and maybe Colorado and some of the
others, you know. And so, you know, I'm certainly really in tune and key to that. But I just don't know and I
don't want my colleagues here to say, oh, yay, we have hundreds and what do we have now left? Mr.
MacLeod in the FISA account $112â€”
DOUG MACLEOD: $129 million, sorry.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: --$129 left and I just wouldn't want my colleagues to like, oh wow, now let's salivate.
Let's, you know as a prior Board which made that decision to allocate it the way it is, the way it is now. And
we can as a current Board allocate it to these kinds of repairs and to the current operations of the system.
Or maybe we should, this is the-- it sort of opens a Pandora's box, and it's just really the Pandora's box we
do want to open.
And of course, you know, that's something I'd like to hear from our senior leadership. Potentially, General
Manager Johnson, as well, to opine on this. You know, it would be-- that would be a major decision. And of
course, that also makes a major message to everyone else in the community that, like hey, this money was
dedicated to other purposes, to the extensions, to the Northwest Rail. So-- and I just want to make sure I'm
not going off the deep end here, but this is the way that my reading of the way this is being explained.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Soâ€”
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Madam, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so Director Rosenthal, can you clarify, just for my edification, about what you
want me to opine on, so I have an understanding?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sure and I apologize if that was fairly long winded. It's just, it just appeared to me,
that we have $129 million left in the FISA count and if what I understood from Mr. MacLeod-- and is quite
possible I, you know, I did not understand that clearly from what he was saying.
Or Mr. Cripps, my understanding was is that we can as a current Board divert that $129 million to other
purposes or any fraction thereof. Could be one million, could be all $129 million to go towards maintenance,
it could go towards operations, it could go towards anything. Is that correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, as I understand it, what you're asking about is the funding source, so, in
relationship to the base system. And you're talking about what's currently being funded as it relates to
FasTracks operations, and if there could be a money swap?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, and I might quit while I'm ahead but Iâ€”
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm having a disconnect. I apologize becauseâ€”
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Can we use the $129 million for other purposes? Full stop.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, OK, so that would-- I'm sorry I'm not being aggravated here, I'm just tryingâ€”
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, no, no. I didn't take it that way. No, no, no, no, no.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I'm trying to say this clearly and I'm not. So if we do, that would take a decision of the
Board, is that right? To free that up.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right, because for my understanding and what I have learned since being at this
organization, there was a policy decision going back to our previous conversation relative to the governance
structure and what you all can do. Basically, that was effectuated by this body in relationship to having
money set aside for any future investments relative to the FasTracks program.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So we would not have to spend that-- so we would have to spend this FISA money
only on FasTracks. Or would we be able to spend it on, say the 65 bus?
DEBRA JOHNSON: As currently prescribed by the action of this governing body, that's what's stipulated.
Hence, I was alluding to the fact that this body can change that, because that was a policy set. So to answer
your question, that money could be utilized for other purposes if this body was so inclined to do so.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, sir.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you both. Director Broom, your hand is still up. Do you have more, before I go
on?
BOB BROOM: No. No, I'll take it down.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I believe that leaves Director Davidson up right now.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Cripps, thanks. Yeah, I agree, super clear presentation
super, super helpful. I-- we're talking about whether we would-- how we should look at expansionary efforts,
whether it's Northwest Rail, whether it's electrifying the fleet, etc. We're also talking about, I think Director
Broom raises a really good point, which is what revenue do we have to support all this?
So I think a fairly fundamental question, and I may be skipping ahead and we may also not have clarity
around this and I think this is for Mr. MacLeod, we're going to see later our draft of the mid-term financial
plan. I think my interest-- before we talk about how recurring additional revenue or one time sources of
funding, be it federal, or FISA, etc.
My fundamental question is, with our current financial plan and where we stand in our planning process
right now, how is this backlog changing currently? So using today's plan, if we throw the everything even
and stopped expanding or even if we just take the plan as is, how is the backlog growing and/or decreasing
right now? What's the margin?
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair, if I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Cripps.
DOUG MACLEOD: It's actually Doug MacLeod CFO.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, it's Mr. MacLeod. Sorry.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Great question, so, if you were to look at our long term asset
needs, just on a recurring basis the average annual cost of that in today's is about $120 million. Just to
maintain what we have. So, it's a fairly sizable chunk of money and that's just the average over time.
Obviously, it swings up and down as we replace buses, do large infrastructure projects, etc.
So that's really the amount that we're looking for to fund over time and, of course, that inflates as you go
through time with inflation and costs of materials, etc. So this backlog, if we can get caught up with that, I

think what you could assume is going forward we'd need to fund about $120 million each year just to stay
up with what we have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Madam Chair, if I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir, go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So, yeah, thanks Mr. MacLeod. I appreciate that. So, in other words, with the current
midterm financial plan-- and I know we're going to see a little bit drafted this later. You have a plan in place
right now that catches up on the backlog and then seeks to not have that grow, expand, or contract. So,
presumably up until this point, we've had an expanding obligation, which is what's led to the backlog.
Do we currently have a plan in place on the mid-term financial plan-- I realize we're still drafting-- to catch
up on that backlog and then not have it grow?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes-- this is Doug MacLeod, Madam Chair. Yes, so, that is the plan. Obviously, it
depends on what policies we set going forward. And in terms of the strategic plan, what our intent with that
is to align our budget with our strategic plan. So we will see some shifting in there, but the intent-- with the
success outcome of financial success, which is one of the four pillars of our strategic plan, one of those
would be to maintain the assets that we do have.
So, assuming we don't add additional assets or additional costs, in terms of maintaining those new assets,
it looks like we can probably maintain a level, depending on what the future of our transit bare revenue,
sales, and use tax, etc. Is. But I think we're in that margin of error where we can take care of what we have
at this point.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you. Yeah, maybe this is a question we can take offline too. I'd be curious
about the historics, at what rate that backlog has grown, because it hasn't come out of nowhere. And I
suspect that would be an unfair question right now, to know what that's been. So, it would be interesting for
us to look at that and understand how that's historically happened before we look at one time funding
sources or etc.
And then I just I'll wrap up by saying, Director Lewis, I totally agree. I think we need to find a way to
communicate this out to stakeholders. I have a number of conversations-- I mean I've only been here nine
months, but now that I'm getting a little bit more familiar, I mean my understanding is, I mean we just we
have very much over capitalized this system. And that's not to critique previous boards or previous leaders,
but we've extended beyond our reach.
And, certainly, one way to fix that as Director referred to, is we can catch up and treat this as a revenue
problem. I think, implied in the presentation that we are seeing here, we can treat it like a cost problem and
we may end up making some sacrifices over time. Which may be the in between the lines of working with
the strategic plan to contract and make trade offs in future years.

So, I think those are important things for us to think about, but it's also really important for our stakeholders
to understand that. And as I have had conversations with stakeholders in a variety of different offices and
capacities, I don't get the sense there's actually a really good understanding of that. And I've had the
opportunity to articulate that to a few people and actually had a few people ask, how can we get access to
that information?
Probably an opportunity with the dashboards we're talking about, strategic plan we're talking about, given
that financial success is one of them. I'll leave it there, not ask anyone to comment on that, but just all that
to say, I agree Director Lewis. I think communicating that information is absolutely critical in the years
ahead. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Davidson and thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. A couple quick questions, or verifying. The Penta-P, the public
private partnership that we have on the Eagle project, so the A, B, and G lines. Correct me if I'm wrong, but
the concessionaire is responsible for ongoing maintenance of those assets until they're turned over to us
at the end of their concessionary period. Is that correct?
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair, Doug MacLeod. Yes Director Cook, that is correct. They are responsible
for returning those assets in an expected state of good repair. At the time they do return those, they're
responsible for maintaining those assets.
SHELLEY COOK: OK and for you also Mr. MacLeod, we had previously-- if you recall, we'd set up some
fiscal policies relating to the COVID recovery period. We had this issue of asset management on our radar
then and had elevated it second only to restoring the reserves in terms of what we do is we come out of the
COVID period. But, even before that, I think we had set a goal of something like 70% as the level we wanted
to fund those.
Is that recommendation changing? Was that deemed not to be sufficient? Is that still our goal? And that's
what you all have brought forward as evidently sufficient, but is it not now? Are we taking a new look and
realizing that wasn't enough.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, this is Doug MacLeod. So you're correct, in the 2020 midterm financial plan that
was approved by the Board and we had that we presented this six year plan going through 2026. At the
time, there was so much uncertainty because COVID was still relatively new, we didn't know about the
additional funding we were getting. All focus was on cutting costs at that point in time.
So within that mid-term financial plan, it was contemplated that we could only fund 70% of the state of good
repair items that were back backlogged and future state of good repair through 2026. And even so, if you
may recall on FasTracks, it required us to use all of FasTracks reserves. To the point that they were in a
deficit position, so-- and that was at the 70% level.

Since that time, we've had the additional COVID funding, which is with CRRSAA and ARPA that will sustain
our operations for the coming years. And in addition to that, our sales and use taxes have been better than
what was anticipated back at the last MTFP in November of 2020.
So, in the current, version we believe that we can fund-- almost fully fund everything that is in the mid, sorry,
in the state of good repair. Backlog as well as ongoing state of good repair. However, I guess the only
caveat, I would say, is some of that may change as we implement our strategic plan and decide where are
we going to dedicate our resources as an organization.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So, the 70%, which I had understood to be sort of-- as cities maintain, they strive to
maintain street performance at the sea level or something. We had not set that 70% as sort of a satisfactory,
it was sort of what we could do at that point, is what you're saying. OK.
DOUG MACLEOD: Right
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And then the last thing is, can we just double check? I mean, if I
understood the answer to Director Rosenthal's question, the FISA money is wide open. But the wording in
the ballot issue says, all debt and taxes raised by this 4/10 of a cent have to go to FasTracks projects, or
the things that were listed and approved by the Board prior to putting that on the ballot.
So, I just want to make sure we're not creating the sense that we could use that in an unfettered way. If
that's not true, if it is true I guess I want to hear about that too.
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. So, yes, you are correct. That is, it is FasTracks money so it
cannot be used by statute on the base system. So when the Board originally set that, the FISA up, certain
funds were identified to build that FISA funding up to the point where it is. At $129 million, including excess
sales tax revenues that are realized, any property sales.
There's probably a dozen items that the Board identified as items where if additional money was found it
would go into this FISA account. So, it could come from the base, if the property sale happens on the base,
the money would go into the FISA account. But once it's with FasTracks it cannot go back, so it's built up
to 129 million. And over the last several years, the Board has made some exceptions and approved use of
some of those FISA funds.
So one example was, there were some additional enhancements needed on the Flatiron Flyer for US36.
So, that portion of it is really FasTracks. So the Board decided, yes, we can use some of that funding. I
believe was about $3 million to make these enhancements.
I believe there are bus bulbs, and pull outs, and some other things that need to be done on US36 but it did
stay with FasTracks. And the funding that's in there, the $129 million, would need to stay and be spent on
FasTracks as well.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. So you're saying that some of the money in the FISA account came from the base
system?
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct.
SHELLEY COOK: Do we know how much?
DOUG MACLEOD: So there's really two components to that, so there's been some miscellaneous property
sales of properties that were owned by the base system that went in there. I'd have to go back and look.
The other portion of that was, in the original FasTracks plan, FasTracks was going to-- and this is the only
exception to the FasTracks being able to fund base is, it was approved that FasTracks could provide funding
back to base to provide bus feeder service to all these new rail lines.
SHELLEY COOK: And that was part of that plan, that's correct. That was what was adopted and approved
as part of the FasTracks plan, correct.
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct. And we refer to that as rubber tire, but contemplated in that is that contribution
would grow over time. And it was based on the growth in that contribution from FasTracks to support the
bus feeder service, was scheduled to grow at consumer price index. Well, the Board voted a few years ago
to limit that, the growth in that, and the excess would stay in the FISA.
So there's contributions between that difference, between what CPI would have been. And the smaller
amount, that stays in the FISA, which has been growing. I believe it's about $18-- $19 million and 2021
that's being contributed. Or less, it's being funded over to the base system than would have been under the
original FasTracks plan. So, it's really those two components. I don't think the property sales amounted to
much, I would say it's single digit millions, but those were designated as going to the FISA.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you and Madam Chair, thank you for indulging all that questioning.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We are all listening and learning. Thank you Director Cook and, again, Mr. MacLeod.
Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And, thank you, Mr MacLeod for clarifying what I was going to
point out. That in the original plan there was rubber tired funding for feeder service and that went by the
wayside and was at 2012 when the FISA account was created. So, thank you for clarifying that. So I think
people get mixed up with that component of FasTracks and the base system, because it is rubber tire
service.
To reiterate what Director Lewis says, this is a pretty sobering picture and Mr. Cripps, thank you for your
very clear presentation. I've been saying for 3 and 1/2 or 3 and 3/4 years now, since I've been on the Board,
that we have been over capitalized at the expense of Operations. But now, I would like to add that we've
been over capitalized at the expense of Operations and state of good repair.

And I guess what I would really like to understand is if it's-- well it's really good news that in the mid-term
financial plan it looks like we are going to be able to catch up and maintain. But, if things were to change,
at what risk would we put this organization, in terms of failure of some of our assets? And that's where I
would be concerned. That's all I had to say, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I take it that was a rhetorical question and not that you wanted a specific answer at this
moment, Director Catlin. You're muted.
PEGGY CATLIN: It is rhetorical now because Mr. MacLeod, basically, clarified and answered what I was
going to ask. So, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Cook, your hand is still up, are you waiting to speak again? Oh, look
at how that hand went down, Director Catlin. OK. I do not see any other hands up. I'm going to ask Mr.
Cripps if he has anything else he wants to add based on the discussion we've had.
LOU CRIPPS: I do not. Thank you, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. General Manager Johnson, anything else on this subject?
DEBRA JOHNSON: The only thing I would like to say in relationship to the statements made by various
Directors about getting this out to our stakeholders. I believe Mr. MacLeod alluded to this, we are working
collectively as a team as we align our strategic plan around state of good repair and things of the like. And
quite naturally, it's imperative that we are communicative as we manage expectations relative to delivering
services and what we can collectively if we do. And so that is part of our overarching path forward, so I just
wanted to acknowledge that we collectively as a team recognize it's important to be transparent and
forthright in relationship to what we have in store.
Because it's a daunting future, but I believe collectively working with all of you collaboratively and making
those tough decisions we will have a way in which we can manage all expectations and ensure that we
have a system that is in a state of good repair. So, thank you very much, Madam Chair, for the opportunity
to share those remarks. And, thank you to Mr. Cripps and his team for their diligence in their work.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you. Director Lewis, I do see your hand up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wasn't sure if Doug said he had the numbers for the amount
of FISA that came from the base, or he did not have those numbers.
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chairâ€”
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, Mr. MacLeod. Sorry.

KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yeah, this is Doug MacLeod. So, I do not have those, Director Lewis, at my
fingertips right now. But I will get those for you and have them distributed to the Board members.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, I appreciate that
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you both. No other hands at the moment. We do have another discussion
item, which is the January 2022 service change. And I believe our COO, Mr. Michael Ford, is going to be
in charge of this presentation. So Mr. Ford, the floor is yours.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to focus in on the presentation. You have information
in your Board packet about the discussion items and the background. So, I'm just going to launch them to
the listening session participation groups. There were meetings between August 19 and August 31
connecting with the key organizations, which included about five meetings during that time.
We met with stakeholders from five geographic sectors, which included Mayors, County Commissioners,
City and County staff, TMOS, TMA representatives, and the total proximate people that attended were
about 52 attendees on these sessions. Talking a little bit about stakeholder input themes during the listening
session, where these issues were brought to light, consideration for rebuilding services, discussions on
returning to work and school, need for operators, and recruitment. How the workforce is impacting RTD,
data on how RTD is measuring demand, and data for RTD to adjust to new travel patterns and needs.
Communication campaigns and transit safety, cleaning, mask mandates were also mentioned. There is
also a general appreciation for a return to some services and a request for more services such as the R
Line route GS and FS4. When we talk about upcoming service change meetings, a vital part of the
development of our service plan involves stakeholder and Customer Engagement process. As mentioned,
on the previous slide, the stakeholder listening phase occurred in August.
The public meeting phase will consist of three virtual meetings, starting in October. October 4th at noon
and at 5 o'clock on the fourth, and Tuesday, October 5th at 5:00 PM. These meetings will be recorded and
available to the public in English and in Spanish. As well as social media promotions and virtual recording
meetings to encourage input as well. Not only is the outreach a core value of RTD, as both the stakeholder
feedback and the customer input will help inform our future service plans.
The next slide really refers to expanded engagement process, a lifecycle. This slide really is a visual
depiction of the life cycle that is embedded in RTD's culture and the concentrated steps of ongoing active
engagement and listening process. RTD is currently moving into the public hearing stage with the planned
public meetings mentioned in the previous slide. I'm going to talk a little bit about the proposed service
change in the process that we're going through, or have been going through as well.

Talked a little bit about ridership through the pandemic. In September, September 2020 service change
adjustments will increase by approximately 10% over the COVID service levels. But I'll note, that this is not
pre-pandemic. The COVID 19 service plan is effective since April 2020, initially carrying about 40% of prepandemic riders while providing 60% of pre-pandemic service. Ridership has slowly increased this year,
increasing about 11.8% from January of this year till June.
Vehicle capacities were lifted in June, as you may recall. And currently, RTD is carrying about 50% of prepandemic riders while providing approximately 70% of pre-pandemic service. Talked a little bit about the
financial impacts, as it's been stated earlier today, but state taxes and fare revenues are down. RTD's
primarily Revenue Service, significant financial impacts through 2026 and federal grant apportionment
totaling about $774 million broken down into $232 million in March.
For the Coronavirus Aid CARES Act in January of 2021, of $203 million, excuse me $203 million, for COVID
relief apportionment. And then, March of 2021, about $338 million as well. This is one time federal revenues
that can support about 85% of pre-pandemic service hours through 2026. Turning to the service changes
during COVID, these are Guiding Principles that are also in your Board packet.
But it's worth mentioning that service standards and service utilization are those things that we look at. It
affects on the integrity of the transit network and those who rely on RTD service. Availability of alternative
services to affect customers is another consideration, Title Vi and the Civil Rights Act, responses to changes
in communities, and cost effective distribution ability to enhance service when possible.
We talked about COVID recovery, there are different elements that we look at in terms of how we handle
that. Operating routes, removing capacities that we did in June, monitoring ridership, using data to help us
manage and make informed decisions. Increasing ridership may require also additional services.
Suspending routes, and looking at that data and the causality of those routes that are suspended, or that
may need to be modified in some way.
Returning to the workplace, talking to employers, schools, universities, colleges. Understanding what those
issues are and those pinch points are. And also, conducting surveys as well as helped us make informed
decisions. In addition to that, the workforce availability bus and train operators, but there are a whole other
sources of resources that we need for our roll up, for service changes. And making sure that what we have
aligns with what we can actually deliver in terms of service.
So, matching service to the workforce will be a critical component-- continues to be a critical component of
how we move forward. The January service proposal for 2022, I mentioned that we're going to be going out
in October. The service changes are included in your Board packet and are categorized as service
improvements and routine service adjustments or schedule changes. It kind of rounds out what it's going
to look like for January of 2022.
And, at this point, I'm happy to stop here and entertain any questions. I did want to acknowledge, though,
that there will be a study session next week as well, with regard to Reimagine. But I'll hold off on that right

now and I'll talk a little bit about that at the end but with that, I will ask Mr. Carter if he had any comments
or any other updates you might want to talk about relative to the 2022 service proposal.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you, Mr. Ford. First question is, can everyone hear me?
KATE WILLIAMS: We hear you fine Mr. Carter, thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Great. Great, the new mic is working then. OK, so I just wanted to just characterize the
service change that we have proposed for January 22. As you may have gone through the proposal in your
Board packet, you'll see there are a lot of schedule changes and-- but there are a couple of things that I
would recognize as being somewhat noteworthy. We are extending the route 15 to a new Amazon facility
way out East.
And that is exciting for two things, one, it allows us to actually serve a new and large employer. But two, it
also gives our operators a respite area on a route that really desperately needed one, so that's something
we're celebrating. At the same time, we're looking at FlexRide and expanding the span of service to better
match the service to normal work hours. So we're going earlier and we're staying out a little bit later on
those FlexRide's and those are the two standouts.
And again, we are going to pay very close attention to providing some schedule adjustments where it's
needed. Because as you may notice, traffic patterns are changing. They're getting more and more intense
and because of that we are affected by that operating at the street level. So with that I would conclude and
turn it back to you, Michael.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Mr. Carter. I did want to acknowledge that there's a coordination obviously
between Reimagine and the work that we're doing. We are establishing service, rebuilding frameworks and
expectations for post January of 2022. And the focus has been-- can everybody see me? OK. And the focus
has been on midterm financial considerations that you'll hear about, here about next week.
Ridership trends, responses, service equity considerations, matching workforce availability and service,
non restoration and alternate services that will look maybe look different going forward. And integrated
network maintenance is also going to be talked about. I just bring this slide into play because you'll be
hearing more a week from today from our folks, relative to Reimagine RTD. And I just wanted to tee that
up for next week as well. So with that, that concludes my report and we'll be happy to take any other
additional questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter. And I see Director Dishell would like to ask you a
question.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair and Thank you Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter for answering my
other questions and sparing everyone else a little bit of time. But my question is, as far as I understand it,
a large component of the challenge of restoring service has to do with the number of operators that we

have. The number of operators that we can employ at any period of time, it's a capital issue, but it's also a
recruitment and retention issue.
And so I'm wondering, based on how our recruitment has been going and traditional trends at the end of
the year approaches, what level of service could we provide? And I guess more just asking an update of-I know it's not like one driver equals one rep, but sort of just asking how we're doing that dance and how
that really important component of restoring service has been going. Because I know there's been a lot of
effort poured into hiring, and training, and retaining, our frontline operators.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, Michael Ford, COO. We are continuing to work diligently on recruitment and
retention efforts, looking at incentives, bonuses, referrals. We are in a very competitive environment right
now with a variety of different employers out there. It's not just us, but all over the place. So, we continue
to do our work and be vigilant. I know that there's additional work that's being done through HR bringing
sourcers in to help with recruitment and retention.
Going with where the people are and trying to recruit them as well. We also have to be mindful of our
attrition rate as well, people do retire and decide to do other things. So, it's a balancing act and we continue
to monitor that relative to what we can afford to put out. I don't know if I have a specific way to answer that
question, other than it's continuing to try to ensure that the people that are here, that they remain and that
we are able to attract more people. And I can assure you that there's a lot of effort being put in this area to
try to maintain our operators, our mechanics, and other resources that we have.
BOBBY DISHELL: Go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: I'm sorry, this is Jessie Carter.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes go ahead
JESSIE CARTER: With that I would add that with any service change, again, trying to make sure that we
are of course looking at things through the equity lens. We have to make sure that if we're going to make a
service change, let's say for example, bring back a route a Regional route that would serve a particular
community, that has to be balanced and measured with an equal type of change or equitable type of change
that serves equity communities.
So, it's not as simple as saying, hey, I want to turn on just this one particular route. We have to look at it
from a systemic standpoint and say-- we have to then put that into the whole change comprehensively and
make additional adjustments. So, if you were to ask how many, how much service could we add in right
now, September was a substantial increase for us and it is challenging our current headcount. So I don't
believe that we have room that would allow us to adjust to some of the maintenance issues that we need
to take care of. So we need to be very mindful of that as far as our next moves go.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Carter. Director Dishell, good? You good?
BOBBY DISHELL: I got excited. I have one-- Thank you. That's really helpful. One just follow up, which is
to say, generally speaking, and I know it's really broad but would you say that our operator head count is
trending in a positive operator mechanic. Our ability to provide and maintain service levels from the staffing
side, are we trying to get a positive direction or sort of plateaued? How are we doing with our new strategies
to fulfill these needs?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may address that, Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, I would.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, ma'am and thank you very much, Director Dishell. In working
in earnest with this, especially with our Administration department with Leah Riley, who's now our CAO,
and with her staff, Racel McMurray being the Senior Human Resources Manager. We are taking this
approach whereby as we look at the attrition rate, collectively, what we need to do is look at what it is we
need to do as we go forward.
Because one thing that we have not done is the organization, and I don't mean this disparagingly, is
basically have what I-- state being a qualified candidate pool. We need to get to a point in time where we
have just a surge of people readily available as we go forward, that's going to take some time. More so,
recognizing that we need to ensure that we're enticing talent to want to come work for us.
And so, recognizing that we have work to do as an organization in reference to ensuring that people feel
valued, that they recognize that they are full fledged contributors, and that we collectively as an organization
appreciate what we put forward. So there is a myriad of work that we have that's forthcoming as we go
down that pike.
I see Leah Riley did jump on and I will defer to her if she'd like to add something additional, because I know
she was working with her team. And Ms. Riley, would you like to share any additional information you and
your team have been working on?
LEAH RILEY: Thank you General Manager, CEO Johnson, and the rest of the Board. I just to echo what
they were saying, there's a whole bunch of initiatives that are underway. That we are working with Michael
Ford and his team in. Terms of how we recruit people, how do we offer hiring incentives, retention
incentives, etc. We're also looking about how we go about recruiting people. Are we, like, looking at diverse
areas to make sure that we have for casting a really wide net.
So, there's a ton of efforts that are underway that we're really excited about. And I think as we move forward,
that there's going to be a lot of progress in this area. And I would love to say that we're coupling it with

Manager training, Supervisor training, leadership training. Because there's a whole bunch of work that goes
to keeping people satisfied and happy and workforce.
So not only do we want to bring people in, we want them to stay with us, they want them to feel at home
and like they're joining RTD family. So there's a whole suite of services that we are working on to solve this
moving forward. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. So, it's a work in progress, sir, and it's going to take us some
time. And what I will add is, the entire world is in need of-- the entire world is short staffed as I qualified.
And I know that's not what people want to hear, but we're in the same boat. And so recognizing that we
have been getting requests from other transit agencies asking about our strategies.
A member of Leah's team, I have reached out and said, can you respond to this person from Ramada
Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority that wanted to know about our strategies. So we're in this
place of doing this information sharing, gathering about what it is that we can do. And of course, quite
naturally we have to look to our partners with ATU as we brainstorm and have ideas.
And I'll touch upon that quickly as we move forward in discussions in the next committee, relative to where
we are with the Office of the State Auditor and what we've done collectively. And that speaks to what Miss
Riley just shared with all of you. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Thank you, Ms. Riley. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you all so much for the continued work and for the update. I know it's all
interrelated and update's really appreciated. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Lewis, I think you're next in the queue.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate it. I just wanted to clarify, you said that we're at
50% of pre-pandemic ridership and 70% of pre-pandemic service? Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, I was just making a contrast between what we were doing previously, but what's
transpired since then. So we have had a slight uptick in our serviceâ€”
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK
MICHAEL FORD: And I just wanted to call that out because obviously COVID is still here and we're still
having issues. But I just wanted to show that we have made some modest increases in service.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So with that 11% increase that's where we are in terms of ridership and service?
MICHAEL FORD: Right.

SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Well, I appreciate that. One other question, what were the geographic sector
meetings?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, Michael Ford, COO. They were-- are you asking where the locations were?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. What were those? Because they sound like they're different than service change
meetings.
MICHAEL FORD: Right, this is stakeholder outreach engagement going to where the people are, where
our constituents and stakeholders are. I can get you, or maybe Pauletta could identify those specific areas.
But again, we've redeveloped our whole stakeholder outreach process and our communication and our
engagement with customers.
And this was a focus early on to ensure that we were going where people were, getting input, and we've
been continuing that process. The life cycle that I referred to kind of illustrates the focus and how we do
that. But in terms of the specific areas, I probably need Pauletta to speak to that and I think she's on there.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. Now, before Ms. Tonilas speaks, I just want to qualify, this is the conversation
that we have had in relationship to expanding our outreach efforts. As you may recall, perhaps six months
ago, when I came into the organization I talked about us having more recurring engagements collectively.
And this is something, as we talked about the Accountability Committee to recommendation when they
were talking about service councils, how we leverage that about six or seven months ago, not in the RTD
service council realm, but going into different areas collectively and having those meetings. So with that, I
just wanted to offer that context. And Ms. Tonilas, if you can speak briefly about where those meetings
occur, to address Director Lewis's question. That would be appreciated, thank you
PAULETTA TONILAS: Of course, thank you very much, General Manager Johnson. The answer to that is
that the five geographic sectors came about through work with our service planning team and our planning
team. As we started to look at how do we listen and give people in the community a chance to have a voice
at the beginning of our service change process, our collective team determine five geographic sectors that
are the Northwest part of the region, the Northeast part, the Southwest, the Southeast, and then Boulder
County. And those five areas are based on a travel shed model that we're determined as the best way for
us to solicit feedback from our key stakeholders.
And so, we invite the stakeholders to those five geographic sector meetings for their own community
meetings. And this has been a successful process since January, as General Manager Johnson said, that's
when we implemented it. And that was for, what would be the May service change, and so we work quite a
bit ahead. So we've been doing this for several months now and it has been a positive way for us to give a
voice to the people in the community at the front end of our service change process. So I hope that answers
your question.

SHONTEL LEWIS: It does, I appreciate it. Is there a map-- and this is probably not surprising, at least not
to Mr. Carter that I would ask this. Is there a map that you might show us so that we could see what those
different areas are?
PAULETTA TONILAS: We actually do have a map and what we can do is dig that up. I don't have that at
my fingertips, but we can definitely dig that up and share that with the Board. Because there is a definite
rhyme or reason for why we chose the five sectors that we did. And so, we can have staff pull that together
and get that to the Board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. I appreciate that you gave more detail because another question that I had jotted
down as Mr. Ford was reading off the different stakeholders was, I didn't hear riders and it sounds like this
is specific for riders. To engage riders in those different areas, am I correct in that assessment?
PAULETTA TONILAS: So Director, actually these-- the geographic sector meetings are stakeholder
listening sessions. And so, those were intended so that the people who really are very well versed at the
transit in their communities, the people that we work with who help us with a number of things in the
community as it relates to the dynamics of transit, they're the ones that we invite.
So we have elected officials, it's the TMO and TMA executive Directors, it is County commissioners, it is
some other key stakeholders, and so those are the parties that we currently invite to the geographic sector
meetings. And obviously, through the work of the Accountability Committee and our work of the committed
responses that we gave, we will be looking at how we can modify our current structure to increase the
people that we will invite to those types of meetings in the future. So there's an opportunity for us to take a
look at that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Where are the opportunities in which we are creating to intentionally bring riders into
the conversation, and where we are going to where the riders are? Right, so we've talked about having
meetings on buses. We talked about going out to bus stops or parking rides. But, and I-- and please hear
that I don't necessarily have an opposition to us having these discussions with our stakeholders.
But I think those stakeholders that are listed, while they may be well versed, are not well equipped to be
able to provide us with the information we need, that a rider would from an experience, from an experience
standpoint. Right, like they are actually utilizing our services. And so, I'm just curious how we're intentionally
bringing information to our riders and utilizing that input in a meaningful way.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes Director, thank you. So we do quite a bit of awareness of the public meetings
that are always part of the service change process. And as Mr. Ford mentioned, those meetings will be
taking place on October 4th and 5th. These are public meetings that have been embedded in our service
change process all along. In addition to that, the public that we serve always have a voice in giving us
feedback.

And actually, we consistently and always get feedback from our customers through our customer care and
the various interactions that they have from the public. But in light of what you said, yes, we have for a while
talked about what other things can we do to get the voice of our customers, the people that we serve.
Obviously, COVID has impacted that to a great degree, but those are things that I'm hopeful we can look
at some creative ways of how we can enhance that moving forward.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Two more questions. One is, around the monitoring of ridership-- You know,
I had a constituent reach out to me about the FF4. And I understand that we are making decisions
holistically, but it does for me, it does for me, makes me wonder what the process may be for individuals
who might utilize a service that is not in operation and how those begin to come back on into service. What
that process might be.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, this is Jessie Carter, acting Senior Manager of service development. In looking at
that, we of course take a look at what's going on with the existing service, the parallel service, the one in
the same family of services. So the FF1, if we were to look at what was going on with the FF1 at the
beginning of the pandemic. So turning back time to April 2020, the ridership was relatively flat. We didn't
see an increase in ridership on the FF until more recently, this summer actually.
So, I'm quite encouraged by the ridership increase that we've seen on the FF1 and if we have the resources
available to do so we would be looking at implementing a more of the Flatiron Flyer. Given, it's one of two
routes that I regularly see standing load cards coming from operators.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Beautiful. Thank you. And then, the last question I have is around matching our service
to our workforce. So this is maybe like a fill in the blank question, but we have enough operators to operate
what percentage of our operating, our service? We have enough staff?
JESSIE CARTER: I'm sorry, this is Jessie Carter, again, Chair. [INAUDIBLE]. It's a very tough question to
answer, bus driver to service our.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK
JESSIE CARTER: You have to keep in mind that we have to have a certain level of operators as extras to
accommodate changes in the system, or accidents, operators being sick, or whatever absenteeism. So the
number fluctuates and one of the biggest challenges we have right now is normal attrition that occurs per
year. The retirements, people aging out, along with the challenging applicant environment that we are
currently in. Those are all things that are really challenging us and should be giving us some caution as to
adding back in high up service that would require a high number of operators.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great, thank you. And then this is just a compliment to each of you, I really appreciate
this presentation. And I want to say thank you for the work on the Broncos ride, because I know that has-that can be a contributor, right, to not having enough operators to operate our service. As well as the
elimination of the Six Day mandate, I really appreciate that you all are sticking to that commitment. And this

is a time, right, where you could just ask operators to work a lot more hours to be able to get things done
and you're not. And so, I really appreciate you standing in that principle.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. You're good, Director Lewis? Thank you Mr. Carter and Mr. Ford. I see-- I'm going
to call on the rest of you and then I'm going to take a chair's privilege for one second because I want to
comment on one thing. I have recently been participating in the Denver Office of Transit and Infrastructure,
known as DOTI's Public Meetings. And they had 2000 people at their last public meeting.
I don't believe that we've had a total of 2,000 people at public meetings in the last couple of years. So, we
might want to call up some people over at DOTI and find out what they are doing that we are not, because
that was an amazing amount of people to show up at a public meeting. So, OK. Director Guissinger, you're
up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. That is amazing, Chair, thanks. Last week I joined commuting solutions,
some of the commuting solutions staff, for a rider appreciation day at the Table Mesa park and ride. And it
is great to go out and talk to the riders. And you won't be surprised, Jessie, to hear that what I heard was
FF4, FF2. Did I understand you to say that there are-- that you are seeing some buses that are standing
room, because that's what my riders were telling me. That in the rush hours, they've been on buses that
are standing room only.
JESSIE CARTER: This is Jessie Carter, acting Senior Manager service development. Chair, if I might
answer the question?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely, Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: Yes and I can actually provide you with which trips actually overload on a regular basis.
It's not all of them, that would be a great indication, but it's certain times of day. It happened as soon as CU
went into session. So, it's definitely the travel pattern going from Denver out to Boulder that's causing it at
this point in time and we can hone in on that. But we receive-- and I want to make sure it's clear. We receive
constant information coming from Customer Care about requests for services.
And FF2 has been constant and FF4 been constant. Whether or not we have enough of the constituency
that would represent significant level of ridership on those lines, on those branches of FF, don't think we
have that just yet. But again, the growth-- the rapid growth of ridership on the FF1 leads me to believe that
there will be, in the future, enough to support ridership on the FF2 and FF4.
However, I will, would actually want you to, participate and listen to some of the conversations we're having
with regard to Reimagine and how Reimagine will suggest changes for the Flatiron Flyer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, I will listen to that. Is that a Reimagine discussion that's happened already?

JESSIE CARTER: It's ongoing. As it stands now, we are going back and forth between the consultant's
recommendations and service planning, trying to hash out what makes the most sense as a formal
proposal.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks, I'll certainly pay attention to that. And to the extent that these issues
are workforce base, I find myself sitting with and talking to these riders and saying we have the same
workforce issues that everyone else has. It would be helpful to me to have some of that quantified-- I thought
what my Debra and Leah put in, and all of you Michael, you know, we're saying about the efforts we're
putting in was helpful.
But also just-- and I looked at the Board briefing documents, I think it was the most recent that we're at 732
plus operators and 850 is what we're looking for. How did that compare to the pre-pandemic numbers? I
think Director Lewis asked, what capacity do we have? What number could we get to? I don't know if you
can say it like that because of the way you answer, but giving us some more specifics would be helpful to
me and answering those questions.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madame Chair, if I may. We will double back and hone in on that and-- it's not black
and white. There are shares of gray because, it's made mention of by one of the Board members, that it's
basically as we look at runs and blocks and how we assign operators. So it's not one for one, and in
reference to how many Revenue Service hours we had previously, so we will try to provide that information
as requested in a simplistic form. Without providing a tutorial in service planning as they do run cutting. So,
we will work on that to try to garner a better understanding for all of you to convey to your constituency.
Thank you very much. And just one more quick question, I think you also mentioned Jessie, that rather than
adding any single line we're looking at our whole equity analysis. Which is great, I think. We've seen what
Carl Greene and all of your team have put out and it's looking good. Is that equity analysis keeping us from
bringing routes back at this point? Or is it-- and I'm thinking this, you know, we certainly want to be serving
equity populations in our-- but with climate change in mind, I'm hoping that we get back to taking care of
our commuters and others too. Is that a balance that we're right off the edge on? Or-- Can you explain that
a little more to me please?
JESSIE CARTER: Sure, if I might. Chair, is it OK?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, please.
JESSIE CARTER: Jessie Carter, acting Senior Manager of service development. It's a great question and
I want to reemphasize that whenever we will look at any given service change we're always going to have
to consider impacts to the system overall. You know, that's one of the lines written into the Guiding
Principles. So I have to say that, it's not necessarily a hold back, but if we're to do things in a proper manner,
if we were to do things equitably, that's what we should do. We should measure this commuter route coming
back and then say-- and ask ourselves what else would balance that service change out to make it
equitable? So it's not necessarily a whole back, it is an impact to the service change.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. That's all I have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Guissinger. Thank you, Mr. Carter, that was well said. Director Sloan,
I believe you are next.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I am and thank you. I-- my second issue is totally related to doctor to Director
Guissinger. But first, I'd like to mention the expanded engagement process. I think it's the intent behind it is
terrific and there are times when people would really feel invested in their input at that time. But I'm not sure
the January services are the appropriate time to be telling people that, we really need to hear from you, it's
so important for us to know what your needs are and the more you explain the more we'll try to
accommodate you.
When it does appear that the January service changes for the majority of the population are minimal at
best. And this was apparent in the stakeholders conversation, when there was request after request for
additional service and the answer was, no that's not going to happen. And it seems to be even more
important to be frank with the public in the public meetings, in terms of managing expectations, to let them
in the inside and the restrictions that RTD is under.
So instead of first talking about, tell us what you need, that's really what we need to know because we don't
have that information, you do. But then to be disappointed in either the long run when the service changes
come out or even after they give their input they are pretty much quashed, even during the meeting itself.
So I would like to suggest, instead of using the usual template for these January service changes, that you
manage expectations somewhat better by being open and frank about the restrictions that RTD is under
for this service change cycle.
I think in the long run, it would be helpful to the relationship between RTD and the public so that's one
comment I have. The other is, like Director Guissinger, it's kind of a personal request for me as a Director.
I do keep getting asked about additional service and as everybody knows the GS service between Boulder,
Golden, and the Federal Center is at the top of everybody's list. And by everybody, I mean people who are
really invested in transit.
NREL, for one, where President Biden was today, talking about climate change. And so these people are
very sophisticated, I need to have an answer for them. To when they said, well what can we do? How can
we get the service back? I would really appreciate help from the staff in getting talking points about-- it sure
doesn't look like you're going to get this service back even though we understand it's important to you. So,
that's a very personal request that I would hope for help on. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. Yeah, I'm going to ask who wants to speak to her.
JESSIE CARTER: I would. First and foremost, I know-- and we've talked about it before with regard to the
GS. It is our intention and it is a long term intention that the GS would return. I'll have to-- I would definitely

want to share with you the fact that the GS remains in the Reimagine plan and is a part of our long term
strategy. I will be happy to work with you to develop some key talking points and point out the reasons why
we are struggling at this point to maintain our current service level and are unable to increase the level of
service at this point.
I certainly understand your comments about making sure that our messaging during this whole public
process isn't tone deaf, to the point where we're asking for input but not stating what our needs are at this
point in time. So that's something that I want to thank you for bringing forward and we'll make sure that we
have that messaging in hand when we go and do the public hearings.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. I appreciate that.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you both for that discussion. I did see Director Davidson, but his hand is down
now. So I will not call on him and Director Buzek I do see your hand up.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Mr. Carter I just wanted to ask, I know you're monitoring 120X to
see how that's going. If you could just get back to me offline, that'd be fine to let me know how things are
looking there. Thanks so much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, you get brownie points for that Director Buzek. That was fast and easy. Take it
offline, talk to you later. Thank you, Mr. Carter. I do not, I'm standing on the bus now because I'm tired of
sitting on that bus seat. I don't see anybody else's hand up. Was there any member of the staff who wants
to add anything further to this discussion, Mr. Ford, that you're running?
JESSIE CARTER: No. I think we've got a lot of good notes here and obviously we'll be getting back to
Board members on a lot of the questions that were asked today.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Carter as well. I do not have any more discussion items
I will then go to other matters. Are there other matters to come before this committee?
OK, crickets. We're down with crickets. The next meeting date of the committee will be October 19th, same
location, same time. And we will adjourn at 9:19 for, I'm sure at least a 5 minute break. Director Catlin, are
you up next and how long a break would you like to have?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm muting issues, five minutes is fine. Soâ€”
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. 9:25, we'll take six. See you guys back here then.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.

