2021-08-19
Executive Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, let's do it. Good afternoon. I'd like to welcome you to the Regional
Transportation District's Executive Committee meeting on August 19, 2021. It is 11:31 AM. Ms. McManus
could you please do the roll call?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Just one moment. Director Guissinger. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek. Director Buzek? Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Vince Buzek. I see that he's on. But I guess we'll just read him into the record.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And then additionally, we have on the call Randy Hunter, Jillian Knapp-Rhodes,
Tai-Shrae Parish in the Board Office, General Manager Johnson, General Counsel Melanie Snyder,
Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I see Director Sloan is also on.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, I'm not-- oh,
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, hi, y'all.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see her now, and Director Sloan. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Well, welcome everybody. I want to, first of all, get an adoption
for the August 4 meeting, agenda meeting. Do I have a motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved, Rosenthal.

SHELLEY COOK: Second, Shelley.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We have a movant and a second. I do want to make one notation, and that
is, under unanimous consent, we did take out the Accountability Committee component, put it under
recommended action so that the Board could see all of the responses from the Board of Directors.
So I just wanted to notate that. With that in mind, do I have any notes on adopting the official Board agenda
for August? Hearing none, it is-- we'll move that forward, Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, now, I want to just talk a little bit about under other matters,
a couple of pieces. The first one is the redistricting process. And as you know, I had appointed both Director
Broom and Director Whitmore.
Director Whitmore has since decided not to be on the Redistricting Committee due to some pieces that he's
working on in his day job. So I have asked Director Sloan to take that spot, and she has graciously agreed.
So I wanted to just talk about that a little bit. And then other than that, Ms. McManus, can you talk a little bit
about what the process will be looking like from this point forward?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I'm sorry. I was just texting Director Tisdale because he's also supposed to be
on to speak with Director Cook. So could you repeat that question? I apologize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: In terms of the redistricting, what the process is from this point out.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, right now, we have our outside vendor that is working-- that is working with
the data from the census that they have so far. They do have some information from the counties that
they're using for preliminary information until everything is finalized sometime in September.
We haven't had any meetings. And I know that periodically, Chris Quinn and Bill Van Meter and his team
will be bringing forward an update as to where we are. They have been notified of the change of Directors
on that committee, and we will keep you updated with any new information that comes forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. You know what I'd like to do is, Secretary Buzek, are you
on?
SHELLEY COOK: I got a text. I texted him. He said yes, but I can't unmute myself.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Again, with your permission-- and maybe you can see if this is OK, Director
Cook, or Second Vice Chair Cook-- I would like to ask our General Counsel to maybe do a little update on
the GMOC process as we move forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. Well, certainly-- certainly the GMOC is going to be
meeting on Thursday next week on the 26th, as scheduled. And that agenda will be coming out right away.
I think, Chair, you had asked me to talk with this committee about is just a reminder of some of the deadlines
that the General Manager's contract.
So I'll go ahead and do that now. And certainly that's something that the GMOC will be overseeing. So as
a reminder, the third Amendment to the employment agreement that the board adopted in July allows for
and requires a competitive solicitation for the compensation analysis for the General Manager and CEO
salary, so that will be forthcoming. I'll be working with GMOC Chair Buzek on that, preparing that solicitation.
I anticipate that that will go out the next couple of months. And just as a reminder, that compensation
analysis will be used to frame and to guide the Board in setting the GM and CEO's salaries starting in
January of 2023. The next deadline to be aware of is that the first performance period for the General
Manager and CEO will close on November 8, 2021.
So that will be for Ms. Johnson's first year of her performance. As you may recall, the Board [INAUDIBLE]
contract decided to use the job description parameters. That's what we will use this first year of the
evaluation process. Ms. Johnson will have the opportunity to submit an inside evaluation. The Board's
consideration for that evaluation is put forth. And the TransPro vendor also has-- will be making available
a tool for that process. And then the Board will pursue some strategic plan objectives going forward on its
ambitions in the following years.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Any questions from anyone?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I could ask General Counsel Snyder just to clarify-- there are timelines
I think that would be advantageous to share relative to the first year. And I don't believe that was referenced,
just for everybody's edification. Thank you very much, Madam Chair and General Counsel.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair and Ms. Johnson. Yes, so the Board must provide an
evaluation by December 31 this year for that first year of performance.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you so very much. I really appreciate the timeline because it
shows us exactly how much time we have to achieve these goals. So thank you very much. Secretary
Buzek, are you able to speak? Are you unmuted yet?
BARBARA MCMANUS: He is not able to speak at this point in time.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you so much. All right, I know that we are going to be talking about
the governance component. But before we do that, is there any other matter to come forward, Director
Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And just thought that perhaps, given the correspondence
and some of the conversations, and I know about the bus 520, and I know the General Manager and others
and some of our team have visited there. And just thought we'd get an update, perhaps, for our next Board
meeting so the public knows that we are working on it and that there is developments in progress.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much, Madam Chair and Director Rosenthal. I appreciate the
inquiry. I was planning to provide an update during the course of my General Manager report on Tuesday,
August 24. But since the question was posed, I will share with you that I have been working collectively and
cooperatively in earnest with the County Manager of Adams County.
Additionally, we have had two meetings where went in person to Adams County. Director Cook was in
attendance as well as Director Whitmore, along with Michael Davies of my team, as well as Justin Carter.
After said meeting, there was a subsequent meeting in which the Mayor of Brighton convened.
In conjunction with RTD, we have earnest dialogue in the context of that meeting as well. Subsequent to
that, I have been, as I indicated, coordinating with the County Manager of Adams County. And Michael
Davies is serving as liaison, working with representative staff from both Brighton as well as with Adams
County.
With that being said, I am personally going out on Monday to Adams County along with members of my
team from an operational vantage point, working with the County of Adams to look at some short-term
solutions. We have agreement that we are going to work in earnest on a short-term solution and then look
at a long-term solution.
I don't want to delve into the matter specific to that because that meeting is on Monday. And in deference
to them and working cooperatively, I think it would be misleading to delve deeper at this juncture, since
that's our meeting on site to walk through those options. So with that, I will yield the floor back to you,
Madam Chair. And thank you, once again, Director Rosenthal, for posing that question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Does that answer your question, Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It does, and I think that would be-- just what the General Manager said would be great
for the next Board meeting. And then on another issue, and I know that the General Manager has spoken
to this maybe a month ago or so, and I know there's a press release regarding this, but the Bronco ride still
continues to get some media coverage, and we do get emails.

And also, when I'm in public, I do speak with members of the public about this. Perhaps that would be
something that we can have another sort of update on that subject at our next Board meeting and go over
the reasons why we are going the direction we are. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, can I add on to that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I'm getting calls. It just seems to have sparked among the group of people who
relied on it a real anger. So it might be good on Tuesday as well to, if we had numbers for people who
boarded the train or just some sense of how it went on Sunday, I think that would be helpful as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Duly noted. All right, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So just to qualify, to manage expectations, I will try to pull together information. But
that may be slightly challenging. So I want to manage your expectations accordingly in relationship to how
we do ridership data. It would be purely speculative in the sense of looking at APC, automatic passenger
counters and things of the like that haven't been validated as of yet. So I do want to ensure, Director Cook,
you have that understanding going forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. And if it generates a whole lot of extra work, I don't want to do that either. So thank
you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. And I'm more than happy to provide that when we get that going forward and just
to manage all expectations, as you well know. I can imagine you're getting enquiries and so forth. And we
have been working in tandem with the Broncos, as you know. And they have been publicizing.
And we've been working in earnest to showcase the various modes of transport in reference to accessing
Empower Field at Mile High. So with that, I will be prepared to do that. And we'll try my best to see what
kind of numbers we can get, Director Cook. So thank you very much, Dr. Rosenthal and Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so very much. The next item that I'd like to talk about, and I'm
hoping Second Vice Chair Cook, is the ad hoc committee on the committee structure. Do you have an
update?
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. I could recap what's included within our packet and add a couple of comments to
that and talk about a path forward if that would be all right, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: Is Director Tisdale on the line yet?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, he is.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, good.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I am.
SHELLEY COOK: I will offer some remarks or an outline, and then we'll turn it over to you to add to it, if
that's all right, Director Tisdale. And first of all, thank you to our Chair for convening this committee and
sticking with it all that time. I really appreciate it. And we've worked-- it's been mainly a group of five of us.
And then recently, adding in Debra Johnson and Michael Davies. And we've benefited greatly from their
thinking.
But in terms of that group that worked over time, it was Director Tisdale and myself as the ad hoc committee,
but really on equal terms with Barbara McManus and John McKay and Tai-Shrae. So I just wanted to
acknowledge all the work and effort, and I appreciate the good thinking that has gone into that.
So if you recall the effort was to look at whether a different governance structure and, in particular, smaller
committees might make sense. And we had all-- or several of us had seen the [INAUDIBLE] APTA webinar
last July, a year ago. And I, at least-- and I know Director Tisdale made special mention of it. It was just
very impressive.
And out of that sort of interest, we looked at forming a more limited number of committees and providing
for probably seven-- five to seven is what we said, but it looks like it'll kind of even out at seven for each of
the committees. And so where we have landed with as a tentative recommendation for the Executive
Committee and the Board to consider is for standing committees, and noting that we'll set aside, right now,
the internal Audit Committee because that one would meet probably quarterly or as necessary and would
be an exception to the standing committee's meeting and structure.
So that leaves four standing committees-- the Executive Committee, the Operations and Safety Committee,
Finance and Planning Committee, and the Performance Committee. And you can see the description under
each of these. The Executive Committee would be-- we considered whether it could be broadened
somewhat from what it does currently, include things like what they're terming public affairs matters, which
I understand to take into account, working with-- the outward facing part of our effort and support. Perhaps
the legislative review, some of the things that we currently have under intergovernmental relations and
communications.
And then, overall, responsible for governance matters. And then secondly would be Operations and Safety.
That would be responsible for consideration of transit service delivery, safety, and security matters. The
third committee is Finance and Planning. One thing I would note here, in the description, it's listed as
responsible for consideration of all long-term financial planning, budget preparation, and planning program
management matters.

It's really, as well, that it makes all kinds of sense to link financial planning with the longer term planning.
Because obviously, the financial constraints come into play and you want to make sure you have a linkage
with your budget for the things that you undertake as goals and so forth. So I would just suggest that it's a
long-term and financial planning or something, so as to not seem to narrow it only to financial planning. It's
really what precedes the financial planning, in a lot of ways, is the long-term planning for the agency.
And secondly, Performance Committee, this is what is currently the GMOC. I would kind of leave it to Debra
Johnson and/or Director Buzek to discuss how this is an elaboration of what we currently have. And then
finally, as mentioned, the Audit Committee.
We'll need to decide a few things going forward-- the meetings that are tentatively proposed would be on
the second Tuesday and Wednesday of each month. In other words, you might have Operations and Safety
plus one of the other ones on a Tuesday, and Finance and Planning on Wednesday.
And it might be that the committees themselves could work that out. We just didn't go that far in nailing that
down. And the idea would be to avoid what we had a couple of weeks ago, where we had three plus one
committees, and we ended up going to 10. And by the time we got to 10 o'clock, I think we were all beat,
just tuckered out, and didn't end up, I think, giving the attention to some of the matters that we would have
otherwise.
So by spreading these into two meeting days, on the second Tuesday and Wednesday of the month and
then the Board meeting two weeks after that, that would-- first of all, I think it would give us both a chance
to delve into our topic matters more deeply, or at least with the ability to be more engaged on it. And then
secondly, we'd, at the same time, be able to cut down on the number of meetings and hopefully late-night
meetings that we have.
Some things that have to be decided yet that we wanted to get your input on is how we go about determining
the leadership of the committees and the composition of the committees. And one idea that GM CEO
Johnson had was to perhaps array the options on those and then seek broad input as a survey, for example.
If we did that, it might be that we'd want to accompany it with a little bit of an analysis or a pro/con kind of
a thing, so to give people food for thought. And then a third piece that we need to talk about, hopefully, is
how we begin to roll this out. How do we work with the Board in terms of getting input at this point? We
really have stressed all along that we didn't-- nothing was going to be predetermined. We wanted input and
to sincerely incorporate that as we went along. So Director Tisdale, can you please chime in here?
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Sorry. We have multiple screens. It's sometimes hard to figure out where mute is.
All right, thank you very much. I appreciate the terrific outline that Director Cook has provided to you
concerning the work of the governance committee structure-- I'm sorry, the committee structure meeting.
First, what we have presented to you now is essentially intended as a stalking horse. This is our thought
based upon well over a year's work of trying to assess how we can A, improve the communities, and B,

demonstrate responsiveness to the state audit and the Accountability Committee's review of RTD and
governance in particular.
The principal elements of this proposal are, first, to have fewer committees; second, to have smaller
committees; third, to have more efficient and effective committees and committee meetings; and fourth, to
have fewer meetings. The elements that are definitely open for further development-- all of these are open.
It's a stalking horse. The elements that are particularly open for further development are the Committee
Chair selection, since we're going to a reduced number of committees and a reduced number of members,
should the Board approve.
So that's something where the Committee Chair selection I think is much more an issue that the full Board
would want to weigh in on. Secondly, committee membership selection because it was easy in the past.
Everybody was on every committee. If we're going to narrow it down, then I think there's going to be a
definite desire on the part of the Board that this not be a unilateral choice by the Chair.
That was not the power of the Chair when the Chair was elected, and to accrete that power now is
something that I think would demand further Board input. So those are the things that I know there will be
further discussion. And there are some proposals. There are some thoughts.
I mean, could we, for example, regarding committee chairs, do the same process that we go through for
electing officers? And that is simply say, OK, we're going to have elections now to see who is going to be
the Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee. People can be nominated, and the Board votes. Who
do they want as Chair? Just the way we do things now.
It seems to work. Maybe that applies. That's only one suggestion. That's not to say this committee has
determined that, has proposed that. I'm just offering that. So I think with those comments as addition, I think
we've laid out, and I think you have a good presentation from Michael Davies in particular and Debra
Johnson. It was phenomenally helpful to have the Board staff involved in this, to have our CEO General
Manager, and to have Michael, in his capacity, do this because all of this work is to create something that
will work well with staff and make us a better agency. Therefore, it need not be conducted in a silo with just
two directors coming up with this proposal. We spread it out so that we had others participate. Thank you
very much, Madam Chair. Those are my thoughts at this point.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Let me begin by extending my deepest gratitude to both the Second Vice
Chair Cook and Director Tisdale for taking on this issue and doing one heck of a job. I also want to commend
you because you actually reached out to ban candidates for the RTD Board of Directors whose name was
going to be on the ballot about this.
So it's not a new concept that no one on this Board has heard. And I think doing that ground work was
really, really helpful. From my perspective, and I'm so grateful for General Manager, our Board staff, and
Mr. Davies for working with us to try and put this together.

I think this is an amazing body of work, and I guess for me-- and I'd like to open it up for discussion-- I would
really like to see us escalate this discussion and determine the plan so that we could start with the new
committee structure in January. So that would mean we kept all these pieces in place.
I would love to see a survey of the Board, of what they were thinking right now. And I don't know this Ms.
McManus. I'm wondering if there should be a total Board conversation around this, with the presentation
from Director Tisdale and Second Vice Chair Cook along with Michael Davies and the General Manager so
that the Board can have some input and start thinking about what it is they want to do and perhaps follow
it up with the survey, an analysis, so that we are all on Board with how they want to move forward. Those
are my comments. Director Rosenthal, I see your hand up.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I echo the commendation for everybody who really
contributed on this. And you can tell that you guys put in a lot of effort. So my question is regarding two
subcommittees and ad hoc committees, where would they fit in, because they also have Chairs and Vice
Chairs. And they have important work that they also do, and how would they fit? Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good question. Ms McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I do want to note that we did do, as the smaller committee last year, we did do
the due diligence of reaching out to all of the directors and getting their comments and thoughts on this.
And a lot of the information and the structure that's in place right now came out of the comments that the
full Board were involved in. I just wanted to bring that up because the Board has been integrally involved
as we move through this process. And yes, this final product should go to them for review.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. I think it's really, really important for everyone to know
that this has been a pretty inclusive process so far. And so next steps, I'll just ask Second Vice Chair Cook,
what is your vision for the next steps?
SHELLEY COOK: I think we need to introduce to the Board the idea that we're looking at moving ahead.
And maybe have this, as Director Tisdale said, as a stalking horse, including with it the prior work that goes
back a year and includes the feedback we got from folks back in December, and then lays out-- just actually
does what you've suggested, lays out the steps that we need to take, the questions that need to be
answered, how we proposed to have the Board determining that, and the timeline for adoption. And so
that's what I would suggest. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Yes, and the further thing is, just to articulate that the Chair's goal,
as expressed here of hoping to have this in place for January 1, 2022, is consistent with what this ad hoc
committee has reviewed, what staff has looked at. And we believe it is eminently workable, and particularly
having the excellent work of Michael Davies with us and formulating some of the language for these things,
we will have a heavy lift for General Counsel going forward, obviously in terms of the bylaw Amendment in
order to effectuate this.

And we have, by the way, eliminated the initial concept that we had kicked around at the beginning
regarding, well, maybe we do this as a pilot project for six months or, more likely, a year and determined
instead that, let's make this change and commit to it, which is respectful of the observation that was made
by Director Dishell, when he was reviewing this and saying, I think you need to show that you're all in and
not look like there's an escape hatch somewhere.
The simple answer to people who are concerned that, well, maybe this isn't going to turn out to be a good
idea is, well, we can amend the bylaws back if we feel we are compelled to do that. But let's start working
on presenting this to the Board, getting the Board's response to what, as I say, I have called the stalking
horse, and articulating Committee Chair selection, committee member selection, and then go forward with
the drafting of the bylaws to accomplish the same, all of which reasonably should be able to be
accomplished during the last four months of 2021. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Ms. McManus, I see your hand up, and then Director Rosenthal.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry, I didn't take mine down.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so speaking to that issue that Director Tisdale just
brought up on the bylaws, just looking towards the end, what is the required vote by the Board in order to
effectuate these changes in the bylaws? Is it majority, is it 2/3, 3/4, what is it?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's super majority.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So 10, or-- yeah, 10, correct.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK, and thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, so then I guess what I'd like to do is ask the ad hoc committee to
continue to meet with Ms. McManus, Mr Davis, and General Counsel, whomever to start putting into place
how we move forward so that the timeline does end up being the goal of having things in place by the end
of December 10 and into January. Nicole.
NICOLE: Yeah, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, is there any other matters to come before the Executive Committee
today? All right, hearing none, I would like to ask for an adjournment.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved, Rosenthal.
SHELLEY COOK: Second, Cook.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, moved and second. Is there anyone opposed? Hearing none, we're
adjourned as of 12:02 PM. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Have a great day.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, goodbye now.
SPEAKER: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Bye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.

