Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 6,
2010
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

April 6, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, April 6, 2010 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Christopher, Vice-Chair Bagley, Chair Kemp, Directors
Brohl, Busck, Cohen, Daly, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Pulliam, Tayer, and Tobiassen
Director Martinez

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Linda Alvarado, Jeff Becker, Rick Clarke, Jeff
Cluphf, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova,
Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Tina Jaquez, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Andy
Mutz, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Scott Roberts, Daria Serna, Cal
Shankster, Bill Sirois, John Shonsey, Brian Starck, Liz Telford, Pauletta
Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Susan Wood,

Others Present:

Roger Sherman (CRL), Bob Wilson (GLAC), Julie Skeen, Lorraine
Anderson, Sharon Terranova (DRCOG), Brian Middleton, GB Arrington,
Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
****

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp began the meeting at 5:33 p.m.

Chair Kemp began the meeting by giving the following statement:
“The Board would like to take time now regarding the tragic accidents that have occurred over
the past few days. On behalf of the Board and all of RTD we express our condolences and our
sympathies for the families and friends of the accident victims that have occurred over the last
few days. Our thoughts and prayers are with all of you.”
General Manager Washington said, “On behalf of staff and also Veolia who we have been
working with for the past couple of our days, we wanted to extend our sympathies and
condolences to the bereaved and the deceased families. We are working internally and taking
a look at all of our processes, as is Veolia. We wanted to extend on behalf of staff and also
Veolia our deepest sympathies to the deceased families.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 6,
2010
Page 2 of 7

Chair Kemp then asked for a moment of silence in honor of the victims.
Chair Kemp then brought up the length of agendas and meetings and asked that staff move
smartly through presentations that have been previously distributed to the Board.
Committee Chair Christopher called the Planning and Development Committee to order at 5:37
p.m. and noted that a quorum was present.
I.

Updates


TOD Lessons Learned – Bill Sirois gave a brief presentation on the TOD Lessons
learned report. A copy of this presentation is available in the Planning and
Development Committee Meeting Minute Notebook. The highlights of the report
were:
o Initiate plans early – get them in the EIS
o Target investments – focus on stations that can be catalysts
o Phase improvements over time – allow those stations with a
longer market horizon to mature
o Corridor wide TOD workshops
 Meld the workshops with the EIS process
 Evaluate and revisit station Relationships
 Form working groups – we have fallen short here, and
have been unable to sustain the working groups
 Develop an understanding of market reality - sixty new
stations but there won’t be sixty new TODs when the
lines open. We will be lucky to have one or two TODs
when the stations open. Developers get more excited
when they see things coming out of the ground. Activity
will increase after the lines open.
o Implementation – requires active participation by all entities.
Implementing TOD is complex
o Speaking with one voice is important in RTD’s communication
with public and private sector.
o Requiring 1:1 parking makes some development infeasible.
Capitalize on Federal TOD funding opportunities
Director McMullen said stations with multiple jurisdictions seem to be the
biggest problem with an overall lack of communication. Is RTD the gatekeeper
in this? Do we give guidance? Mr. Sirois said the Corridor Working Groups are
the best place for communication between jurisdictions and understanding what
is going on at each station.
Director McMullen spoke about his disappointment with the Orchard station;
there is great development there but the pedestrian connectivity is really
lacking.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 6,
2010
Page 3 of 7

Director Daly said that transportation accessibility around malls is not good;
maybe we should try and work on that. Do we have a transit access
committee? Mr. Sirois responded that yes we do; it is made up of staff from all
the different areas and last year came up with a document regarding transit
access guidelines.
Director Daly wanted clarification on the problems with parking 1:1. Mr. Sirois
explained that at a station where we have an existing number of parking spaces
and a developer comes in, RTD mandates that the developer replace all parking
spaces that may be lost on a 1:1 basis. Developers usually balk at this
requirement. Mr. Sirois said the Board might want to consider if there are
situations where we would consider less than a 1:1 replacement at some
stations?
Director Bagley commended the report and thinks it helps address questions
about how to work with our partners. As we move forward this will be a very
helpful tool.
Director Brohl wanted to know how RTD fits in with investing in infrastructure.
Mr. Sirois said this is a discussion that occurs at a higher level with DRCOG
about how we prioritize funding for infrastructure. RTD invests in the transit
infrastructure and we need to work jointly with the local jurisdiction in the
design of that transit. We want to partner with them in looking at how we
might be able to accomplish other station infrastructure improvements to make
the station the best that it can be.
Director Malpiede was excited by the report. There seems to be a change in the
air on the Federal level to focus on incorporating an affordable workforce
housing for low and moderate income communities and she was pleased by that
inclusion in the report.
Director Cohen said that last week he met with Lakewood Mayor Bob Murphy
and City Manager Kathy Hodgson and they talked about the need for drainage
improvements along Wadsworth. How do we work together through the City so
that both entities can benefit?
Rick Clarke said if we can benefit by doing joint infrastructure work, we are
always looking for those opportunities. There are several examples of this along
the West Corridor. He said that any desired upgraded infrastructure
improvements above what was required for construction would be subject to
discussion.
Committee Chair Christopher said it was a great report that will be a great
reference. He was excited about the forty stations in the works. In regards to
Corridor planning, we really need the buy-in at the elected level so that we can
have more collaboration and coordination.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 6,
2010
Page 4 of 7

Director Busck said we are creating whole new communities inside of
communities. We need to be partners with the jurisdictions and have an
agreement on ways to work with them and share information.
General Manager Washington referenced the “Next Steps” slide and pointed out
that staff will be coming back several times over the next four months.
Next month the Board will receive a presentation on transit agency TOD best
practices by GB Arrington. On June 1, 2010 the Board will discuss any potential
TOD policy changes with approval of the policy changes (if needed) in August
2010.


Downtown Distributor – Jeff Becker gave this presentation. FasTracks
envisions bringing a lot more people downtown, particularly to Union Station.
The mall shuttle does not have enough capacity to meet the crush of people
commuting during peak periods. Staff is proposing a new shuttle route, the
downtown distributer, which will run between Union Station along 18th and 19th
Streets down to Civic Center Station and the Denver Art Museum giving access
for commuters to the major employment areas of Downtown Denver. The
proposed frequency is five minutes during peak periods and ten minutes during
off peak times. This will involve purchasing new vehicles and some investment
in street improvements. RTD has received extensive input from over thirty
stakeholders about what this service should look like. This proposal has been
submitted to the City and County of Denver for their approval to the changes to
the intersections. We are moving forward this year to get everyone’s
agreement on the details and then will come back to the Board at the beginning
of 2011 with the specific proposal, number of vehicles and actual schedule.
Director Daly liked the bus bulb idea in the plan and believes it will speed up
boarding. He wanted to know about the capacity of the underground bus
facility at DUS and if there will be enough room for all these routes. Mr. Becker
responded that there will be enough room.
Director Daly was also concerned about the ¾ mile zoning for ADA accessibility
and why this is mentioned. Bruce Abel responded that this came out of the
FTA’s triennial review. There is a requirement that we provide ADA paratransit
service with a ¾ mile at no more than twice the price. The issue arose over the
16th mall shuttle as there is no fare for the shuttle and then any ADA service
within ¾ of a mile of the mall would have to be free. This required extensive
negotiations with the FTA. We need to be cognizant of implementing a free
shuttle along 18th and 19th Streets as that would require more negotiations with
the FTA.
Director O’Boyle wanted to know the results of the FTA negotiation and Mr.
Abel shared that as a result of the negotiations, the ADA free fare zones

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 6,
2010
Page 5 of 7

extends to ¼ mile on either side of the 16th Street Mall.
Director O’Boyle wanted to know if this is a FasTracks project. Mr. Becker
responded that it is. Director O’Boyle really likes the “last mile of service”
aspect of the project as there have been problems with this in the Southeast
Corridor.
Director Tobiassen sees this as an incredible economic booster for downtown.
Bill Sirois shared that the District has applied for an Urban circulator grant for $9
million dollars on this project. We won’t know about the grant until this
summer. Director Tobiassen’s concern was that if FasTracks is not being built
out to schedule that this program may need to be adjusted for less demand.
Director James shared that the 16th Street Mall stakeholders have been
discussing different options for the mall and there is a good discussion going on.
A streetcar system is being considered along Colfax. How could that integrate
with the downtown distributor? Mr. Becker responded that the city is studying
the feasibility of a streetcar along Colfax but there is no funding for it right
now. If a streetcar were to go in, it would probably replace the local route but it
hasn’t really been discussed how it would interact with the distributor.
Director McMullen wanted to know if this project had its own budget and if it
was funded. Mr. Van Meter responded that it has its own budget and it is
funded. The West Corridor alone is kicking the need for the first level of service
on this route. As FasTracks is built out, the demand for this service will rise.
We will be able to adjust fairly rapidly to service demands.
Director Malpiede wanted to know if this will be a free service. Mr. Becker
responded that it is proposed to be a free service unless there is a
recommendation otherwise.
Director Christopher said that he favors this project and likes the direct
connection with FasTracks. He doesn’t see how you could have free service on
16th and charge on 18th. Director Christopher is concerned about the overhead
cost of $2 million annually for the operation of this. It seems like we are
enhancing areas in downtown Denver and someone else can perhaps pay for
this cost. It seems like there should be a partnership of some kind. Director
O’Boyle said that he assumed financial partnership was implicit in this plan.
Director Tayer brought up the regional equity resolution. The opportunity to
shared benefits of the FasTracks program across the District. It is imperative in
regards to these types of services and costs if there other ways we can pay for
this service.
Director James said there are opportunities to integrate our development with
this project. The subsidy for the Mall shuttle is actually the cheapest of our

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 6,
2010
Page 6 of 7

routes when it comes to serving our customers.


Approval of the 2010 Contract for the 16th Street Mall Maintenance – Jeff
Cluphf, Construction Project Manager, gave this update. There were three
bidders on the contract. The low bidder was non responsive (didn’t include
many items necessary for a successful bid) so Montoya Masonry received the
contract. Montoya Masonry has maintained the mall since it was constructed.
Director O’Boyle wanted to know if these costs are factored into the mall
shuttle subsidy. Terry Howerter responded that yes it is the cost of the paver
repairs and replacements are included in the cost of operating the shuttle.
Director Brohl recalled a discussion regarding putting policy about the Mall in
with a maintenance contract. Rick Clarke clarified the conversation what is
RTD’s long term obligation in regards to maintaining the Mall vis-à-vis the City
and County of Denver. The current IGA expires in 2012. We have started
discussions with the City. This action is strictly to keep the mall running. The
longer term policy issue is what RTD’s long term role in maintenance of the Mall
will be; this will be in discussion for the next few years.
Director Brohl was happy this was a contract for just maintenance and that
there were no policy implications in it.
Director James said that the mall plan is being evaluated. He is hoping there will
be an adequate return on investment on the renovation of the mall. Urban
design alternatives are being discussed and financial feasibility is being studied.



Station Addition Policy – Bill Van Meter, Rick Clarke, and Bill Sirois gave this
presentation. They touched on the key pieces of the Station Addition policy in
light of the discussion back in February 2010 relating to additional stations on
the East Corridor.
A copy of this presentation is on file in the Planning and Development
Committee Meeting Minute Notebook.

II. Other Matters – Director Bagley spoke about the NAIOP challenge that is coming up in
early May 2010 and it is in relation to the Coliseum station area planning. He would
like to have the winners come and present their design to the Board. Five tickets may
be available. He and Director James plan to take the two Board tickets and he asked
staff that if they do not complete their seats, please let the Board know.
Director Tobiassen spoke about issues with transfers on the 15L and how transfers
continue to be a huge issue for our bus operators. An Internal task force has been
created to look at this issue and will report back to the Operations and Customer
Services Committee. Director Tobiassen said the focus should be on Smart Card
technology and getting rid of transfers and putting the farebox procurement on hold.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 6,
2010
Page 7 of 7

Staff responded that the farebox procurement has been delayed for now.
III. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is
scheduled for May 4, 2010.
IV. Adjourn to FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Hearing no objections, Chair Christopher adjourned the Planning & Development
Committee meeting at 6:54 p.m.

