## I. Government Relations Committee

Chaired by Jeff Walker

Directors Archuleta and Mihalik were absent. Director Folska left early, and Director Anderson participated via phone.

Staff Present:               Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Chessy Brady, Jeff Cluphf, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Ken Fleck, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Chris Harmon, Kate Iverson, Adrian Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Henry Stopplecamp, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood

Others Present:               Jenifer Brandeberry, William Gross, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner

#### 1. Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, said that Roger Sherman was unable to attend but sent his regrets. She said that he would be submitting minutes notes from the MPACT64 meeting as soon as they were prepared.

Director Francone said Roger Sherman went to a Colorado city and county managers’ conference in January. She said she had not seen a follow-up report from Mr. Sherman for that meeting and indicated she would like to hear what he took away from it. Sherry Ellebracht said she would ask Mr. Sherman to provide notes and mentioned that he would be sending emails to the Directors to schedule Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) one-on-one meetings.

##### a. Local Update CRL LGR Report 02-07-17

#### 2. State Update - Brandeberry McKenna

Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs, said Senators Cooke and Lundberg asked for a moment of silence in the Senate for Transit Security Officer Scott Von Lanken. She said the big conversation at the Capitol was in regard to a bipartisan measure to increase transportation funding for the state. While she stated that no such bill has been introduced, her firm is encouraging both sides to work together to pass a measure that would be referred to the ballot. She said the legislators are discussing what kind of measure would be tolerable. She also mentioned that funding was a big sticking point between the two chambers; while the Republican-controlled Senate does not want general fund money to go toward transit, the Democratic-controlled House wants to spend large sums on transit. She said the difference between $250 million and $0 in funding is a lot but hoped that compromise could be found in the middle of that range. She stated that a handful of tax bills had been introduced that would have a fiscal impact on the district and that the bills with the biggest impact have the least likelihood of passing. She said that RTD Transit Police Chief John Tarbert and his staff had issues with one particular bill, SB17-093 by Senator Andy Kerr. The bill would allow bicyclists to ignore certain traffic laws. She said other law enforcement officials also opposed the bill and stated the bill died in committee on 3-2 vote. Finally, Ms. Brandeberry said that her firm has been meeting with new legislators to give them background information on RTD and information about openings and has offered to be a resource in the conversation about transportation financing.

Megan Wagner, Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs, gave an update on the legislative reception scheduled for February 8, 2017, at the Cooper Lounge. She thanked Director Folska for securing the venue and said that 25 legislators indicated they would attend.

Director Broom asked whether any urban renewal legislation had been introduced.

Jenifer Brandeberry said that Representative Beckman introduced a bill that same day concerning Tax Increment Financing (TIF) requirements. Ms. Brandeberry said that there is an ongoing conversation in the legislature about how TIF mechanisms impact school funding and that TIF and TIF reform have been topics at the state legislature for years. She said former Speaker Hullinghorst had run a bill on TIF reform in the past. She said TIF bills could have impact on transit-oriented development.

Director Broom asked whether any new TIF legislation would be retroactive.

Jenifer Brandeberry said that any changes would be prospective and would not affect deals that have already been made.

Director Folska asked for an update on construction defect legislation.

Jenifer Brandeberry said one bill about insurance had been introduced, which was scheduled to be heard on February 8th. She said that the business community and the coalition of interested stakeholders viewed that bill as having only minor impact, though she did say that certain stakeholders have stated they would not support the bill until they see the whole package of construction defect bills. She said that the coalition has pushed for another bill, SB17-156, which covers both binding arbitration and informed consent. Ms. Brandeberry thinks that bill will pass, since there are House Democrats that support it, but stated that its passage depends on the committees to which the bill is assigned. She said that the House could introduce bills on informed consent and that there would be competing House and Senate bills, but the fact that there are bills on construction defects at all is a huge step forward. She stated that legislative leadership wants to see substantial reforms and that the leaders recognize that the bill on insurance is not enough, She said her firm would keep the Board informed.

Committee Chair Walker asked if there is a tone in the conversation on transportation, whether that be safety, capacity, air quality, or some other concern.

Jenifer Brandeberry said that the emphasis was lack of resources. She said that both parties have indicated that they want to do more for infrastructure and that for some transportation is enough of a priority for the money to come from the general fund. She said that, because of the budget constraints and complicating factors in the constitution, policymakers have so little room to make expenditures. She feels that, while there is a legitimate argument for the money coming from the general fund, that money is not enough to deal with the deficit in maintenance and operations over time. She said the Senate Republicans do not want to go to the voters to ask for new revenue unless the right package is put together, whereas the House leadership is uncomfortable with the money coming out of the general fund because doing so would take away funding from some of their priorities. Ms. Brandeberry said there are two philosophies playing out, though she did say the two sides want to compromise and that the community has given them the support to make that overdue compromise. She mentioned that RTD has been successful in building compromise and could serve as a model for the legislature.

##### a. State Update- Brandeberry-Mckenna Board Update 1.31

#### 3. Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, said there was a lot of action in Washington, D.C. He said that Elaine Chao was approved as Secretary of Transportation and that the agency has leadership. He mentioned that people are also paying attention to the proposed federal infrastructure package and Speaker of the House said this would be a standalone bill. He said the bill would not increase federal spending but rather would leverage funds from the private sector though public-private partnerships. He said that any new federal expenditures would likely be one-time payments, possibly coming from tax money repatriated from overseas. He said that the Democrats in the Senate have proposed a $1 Trillion infrastructure spending package and that Congressman Peter DeFazio (D-OR) has been working on infrastructure legislation in the House of Representatives. Mr. Dino said that whatever package comes out would come through the Republican caucus and that the Democrats efforts will be ignored. He also mentioned that local and county governments are interested in federal efforts to diminish or do away with tax deductibility of municipal bonds and other publically-funded bond instruments. He said that the Obama administration had tried to reduce the deductibility of bonds and that the current administration wants to do away with the deductibility altogether. He mentioned that the APTA Legislative Conference in Washington, D.C. was a month away and noted that it is important to recognize that the continuing funding resolution expires on April 18, 2017. He said there is speculation on how that looming deadline would potentially be used as leverage going forward.

Director Folska asked Mike Dino when Federal Transit Agency (FTA) and Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) administrators might be appointed. Mr. Dino answered that the appointments should occur before spring, because Elaine Chao has been confirmed and the agency has its leadership in place. He said many of the people he has worked with in the past are still working in Department of Transportation and speculated the DoT might be better off currently than other agencies.

Director Francone asked about gas tax, as she heard a rumor about Congressman Buck working hard on legislation.

Mike Dino said the package coming out of the Speaker’s office does not include tax increases. He mentioned that there are Republicans who have talked about bringing earmarks back, which could potentially happen after the 2018 elections rather than in the current legislative session. He said that House Republicans feels the President has too much power over the federal purse strings. Mr. Dino said that he does not foresee earmarks coming back in the near future, because they are too much of a political hot potato. He mentioned that President Trump tried to get rid of the Ethics committee, but the Speaker prevailed.

Sherry Ellebracht said people are trying to reframe earmarks by calling them “line item appropriations”. Mike Dino gave a brief history on earmarks and said that, previously, people could ask for earmarks anonymously but by the end of the last earmark session their use had become more transparent. He said that if earmarks were to come back they would require a lot of justification.

Director Anderson said she is concerned over the idea of “buy American” and that the policy is getting even more stringent. She said that RTD is not able to purchase trains or buses off the shelf through American manufacturers.

Mike Dino said that the push to buy American is a concerning thing and that the policy could become stricter, in that even the sourcing for the ultimate product may be impacted. He mentioned that the potential trade issues are concerning a lot of people and that the policy that will continue to be debated and evolve. He said that any infrastructure legislation introduced before July 4 would include a buy America provision.

Mike Dino also spoke about the new executive order on federal regulations and explained that covered regulations are defined as having a $100 Million impact or larger. He said that it may be worth taking a look at regulations the Board thinks should be rewritten, since there is an environment in Washington where improvements on regulations can be discussed, though he did say it may still be difficult to get rid of some of these rules.

Director Anderson recalled lobbying Senator Brown, who always said there would be no earmarks.

Director Francone asked about the I6 grant.

Mike Dino said that the I6 grant was a competitive Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant through a Department of Commerce that would have created a partnership among RTD, Jefferson County, and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) to develop businesses in the western part of the metropolitan area. Competitive grant opportunity. He said the grant application was not successful for the first round. He said that the stakeholders met with the EDA regional administrators who encouraged the Jefferson County Commissioners to put together a planning grant that could put them in a better position to go after I6 grant funding again. He said the planning grant would secure as much as $300,000 in federal matching funds and that the Commissioners are interested in partnering with RTD and NREL to move forward and the EDA is being very cooperative.

Director Walker mentioned he found a lot of value in earmarks for one-time infusions of cash, especially for certain projects.

Mike Dino mentioned one instance when the City of Denver asked for funding for a Colfax streetcar study when RTD was not quite ready to participate in due to other commitments, creating tension between RTD and the City of Denver.

Finally, Committee Chair Walker mentioned that certain federal regulations were created for a reason, such as those created by court order, and that it would be interesting to see how certain regulations are dispensed with.

##### a. Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs 2 7 17

### E. Next Meeting Date - March 7, 2017

Committee Chair Walker announced the next meeting would be March 7, 2017.

### F. Adjourn

Director Walker adjourned the meeting at 6:10 p.m.