Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, February 7, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Absent
Absent
Present

Arrived

5:26 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

5:15 PM
5:30 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:30 PM
5:21 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Absent

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:19 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District O
Director, District K
Committee Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:04 PM
5:22 PM
5:18 PM

Directors Archuleta and Mihalik were absent. Director Folska left early, and Director
Anderson participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Chessy
Brady, Jeff Cluphf, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Sherry Ellebracht,
Terry Emmons, Ken Fleck, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Chris Harmon,
Kate Iverson, Adrian Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, John
McKay, Barbara McManus, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Henry
Stopplecamp, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, William Gross, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.
Sherry Ellebracht said that Roger Sherman was unable to attend but sent his
regrets. She said that he would be submitting minutes notes from the Impact
64 meeting as soon as they were prepared.
Director Francone said Roger Sherman went to a Colorado city and county
managers’ conference in January. She said she had not seen a follow-up
report from Mr. Sherman for that meeting report and indicated she would
like to hear what he took away from it. Sherry Ellebracht said she would ask
Mr. Sherman to provide notes and mentioned that he would be sending
emails to the Directors to schedule Citizens Advisory Committee one-on-one
meetings.

• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry said Senators Cooke and Lundberg asked for a moment
of silence in the Senate for Transit Security Officer Scott Von Lanken. She
said the big conversation at the Capitol was in regard to a bipartisan
measure to increase transportation funding for the state. While she stated
that no such bill has been introduced, her firm is encouraging both sides to
work together to pass a measure that would be referred to the ballot. She
said the legislators are discussing what kind of measure would be tolerable.
She also mentioned that funding was a big sticking point between the two
chambers; while the Republican-controlled Senate does not want general
fund money to go toward transit, the Democratic-controlled House wants to
spend large sums on transit. She said the difference between $250 million
and $0 in funding is a lot but hoped that compromise could be found in the
middle of that range. She stated that a handful of tax bills had been
introduced that would have a fiscal impact on the district and that the bills

with the biggest impact have the least likelihood of passing. She said that
RTD Transit Police Chief John Tarbert and his staff had issues with one
particular bill, SB17-093 by Senator Andy Kerr, which would allow bicyclists
to ignore certain traffic laws. She said other law enforcement officials also
opposed the bill and stated the bill died in committee on 3-2 vote. Finally,
Ms. Brandeberry said that her firm has been meeting with new legislators to
give them background information on RTD and information about openings
and has offered to be a resource in the conversation about transportation
financing.
Megan Wagner gave an update on the legislative reception scheduled for
February 8, 2017, at the Cooper Lounge. She thanked Director Folska for
securing the venue and said that around 25 legislators had said they would
attend.
Director Broom asked whether any urban renewal legislation had been
introduced.
Jenifer Brandeberry said that Representative Beckman introduced a bill that
same day concerning Tax Increment Financing (TIF) requirements. Ms.
Brandeberry said that there is an ongoing conversation in the legislature
about how TIF mechanisms impact school funding and that TIF and TIF
reform have been topics at the state legislature for years. She said former
Speaker Hullinghorst had run a bill on TIF reform in the past. She said TIF
bills could have impact on transit-oriented development.
Director Broom asked whether any new TIF legislation would be retroactive.
Jenifer Brandeberry said that any changes would be prospective and would
not affect deals that have already been made.
Director Folska asked for an update on construction defect legislation.
Jenifer Brandeberry said one bill about insurance had been introduced, which
was scheduled to be heard on February 8. She said that business community
and the coalition of interested stakeholders viewed that bill as having only
minor impact, though she did say that certain stakeholders have stated they
would not support the bill until they see the whole package of construction
defect bills. She said that coalition has pushed for another bill, SB17-156,
which covers both binding arbitration and informed consent. Ms.
Brandeberry thinks that bill will pass the bill, since there are House
Democrats that support it, but stated that its passage depends on the
committees to which the bill is assigned. She said that the House could
introduce bills on informed consent and that there would be competing
House and Senate bills, but the fact that there are bills on construction
defects at all is a huge step forward. She stated that legislative leadership

wants to see substantial reforms, that the leaders recognize that the bill on
insurance is not enough, and that her firm would keep the Board informed.
Director Walker asked if there is a tone in the conversation on
transportation, whether that be safety, capacity, air quality, or some other
concern.
Jenifer Brandeberry said that the emphasis was lack of resources. She said
that both parties have indicated that they want to do more for infrastructure
and that for some transportation is enough of a priority for the money to
come from the general fund. She said that, because of the budget
constraints and complicating factors in the constitution, policymakers have
so little room to make expenditures. She feels that, while there is a
legitimate argument for the money coming from the general fund, that
money is not enough to deal with the deficit in maintenance and operations
over time. She said the Senate Republicans do not want to go to the voters
to ask for new revenue unless the right package is put together, whereas
the House leadership is uncomfortable with the money coming out of the
general fund because doing so would take away funding from some of their
priorities. Ms. Brandeberry said there are two philosophies playing out,
though she did say the two sides want to compromise and that the
community has given them the support to make that overdue compromise.
She mentioned that RTD has been successful in building compromise and
could serve as a model for the legislature.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, said there was a lot of action in
Washington, D.C. He said that Elaine Chao did get approved as Secretary of
Transportation and that the agency has leadership. He mentioned that
people are also paying attention to proposed federal infrastructure package
and Speaker of the House said this would be a standalone bill. He said the
bill would not increase federal spending but rather would leverage funds
from the private sector though public-private partnerships. He said that any
new federal expenditures would likely be one-time payments, possibly
coming from tax money repatriated from overseas. He said that the
Democrats in the Senate have proposed a $1 Trillion infrastructure spending
package and that Congressman DeFazio has been working on infrastructure
legislation in the House of Representatives. Mr. Dino said that whatever
package comes out would come through the Republican caucus and that the
Democrats efforts will be ignored. He also mentioned that local and county
governments are interested in federal efforts to diminish or do away with tax
deductibility of municipal bonds and other publically-funded bond
instruments. He said that the Obama administration had tried to reduce the
deductibility of bonds and that the current administration wants to do away
with the deductibility altogether. He mentioned that the APTA Legislative
Conference in Washington, D.C. was a month away and noted that it is

important to recognize that the continuing funding resolution expires on April
18, 2017. He said there is speculation on how that looming deadline would
potentially be used as leverage going forward.
Director Folska asked Mike Dino when Federal Transit Agency and Federal
Railroad Administration administrators might be appointed. Mr. Dino
answered that the appointments should occur before spring, because Elaine
Chao has been confirmed and the agency has its leadership in place. He said
many of the people he has worked with in the past are still working there in
Department of Transportation and speculated the DoT might be better off
currently than other agencies.
Director Francone asked about gas tax. She heard a rumor about
Congressman Buck working hard on legislation.
Mike Dino said the package coming out of the Speaker’s office does not
include tax increases. He mentioned that there are Republicans who have
talked about bringing earmarks back, which could potentially happen after
2018 elections rather than in the current legislative session. He said that
House Republicans feels the President has too much power over the federal
purse strings. Mr. Dino said that he does not foresee earmarks coming back
in the near future, because they are too much of a political hot potato. He
mentioned that President Trump tried to get rid of Ethics committee but the
Speaker prevailed.
Sherry Ellebracht said people are trying to reframe earmarks by calling them
“line item appropriations”. Mike Dino said gave a brief history on earmarks.
He said that previously people could ask for earmarks anonymously but by
the end of the last earmark session their use had become more transparent.
He said that if earmarks were to come back they would require a lot of
justification.
Director Anderson is concerned over the idea of “buy American” and that
the policy is getting even more stringent. She said that RTD is not able not
purchase trains or buses off the shelf through American manufacturers. Mike
Dino said that the push to buy American is a concerning thing and that the
policy could become stricter, in that even the sourcing for the ultimate
product may be impacted. He mentioned that the potential trade issues are
concerning a lot of people and that the policy that will continue to be
debated and evolve. He said that any infrastructure legislation introduced
before July 4 that would include a buy America provision.
Mike Dino also spoke about the new executive order on federal regulations
and explained that covered regulations are defined as having a $100 Million
impact or larger. He said that it may be worth taking a look at regulations
the Board thinks should be rewritten, since there is an environment in

Washington where improvements on regulations can be discussed, though
he did say it may still be difficult to get rid of some of these rules.
Director Anderson recalled lobbying Senator Brown, who always said there
would be no earmarks.
Director Francone asked about the I6 grant.
Mike Dino said that the I6 grant was a competitive Economic Development
Administration (EDA) grant through a Department of Commerce that would
have created a partnership among RTD, Jefferson County, and the National
Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) to develop businesses in the western
part of the metropolitan area. Competitive grant opportunity. He said the
grant application was not successful for the first round. He said that the
stakeholders met with the EDA regional administrators who encouraged the
Jefferson County Commissioners to put together a planning grant that could
put them in a better position to go after I6 grant funding again. He said the
planning grant would secure as much as $300,000 in federal matching
funds and that the Commissioners are interested in partnering with RTD and
NREL to move forward and the EDA is being very cooperative.
Director Walker mentioned he found a lot of value in earmarks for one-time
infusions of cash, especially for certain projects.
Mike Dino mentioned one instance in which RTD was not thrilled that
Denver asked for funding for a Colfax streetcar study when RTD was not
quite ready to participate due to other commitments, creating tension
between RTD and the City of Denver.
Finally, Director Walker mentioned that certain federal regulations were
created for a reason, such as those created by court order, and that it would
be interesting to see how certain regulations are dispensed with.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters

E. Next Meeting Date - March 7, 2017

F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 6:10 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

