2021 – 03 – 09
Operations Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Heads up, everybody, we'll be starting in just a moment.
OK. I'm starting to see some faces.
OK. Let's do this. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The Operations and Customer Service Committee
will now come to order. We're convened as of 6:36 PM on Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask that
everyone attending this meeting, please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
I do not believe we need to do a roll call. We've done that already this evening. I'd like to thank you all for
joining us. Please note that under current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors
are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, the
meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom. These meetings are audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meeting will be posted as soon as possible.
Oh, no more practicable? Possible, on the Board's website. You can visit rtd/denver.com and scroll to the
bottom of the page for the links to the Board of Directors page to find that information. As always, directors
and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during tonight's
proceedings, please raise your virtual yellow hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their hands to indicate they would like to speak by
pressing star 9.
To mute and unmute yourself, you can press star 6. Please not that we will not be taking public commentary
during this committee meeting. Members of the public who are interested in speaking were given the
opportunity to do so earlier tonight and are encouraged to do so during the normal monthly Board meeting.
For future meeting dates, you can go to the board's meeting portal located at rtd.iqm2.com.
Interestingly, we have no recommended actions this evening as part of this committee, so we are going to
move to discussion items, unless anybody has anything else that they want to bring up at this point? Seeing
no hands, I'm going to make a change to the order, published order, of the discussion items and ask the
Access-A-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee Report to take place first.
Mr. Buter, do you want to introduce Brenda?
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, the Chief Operating Officer. Yes, I just wanted to get some context
regarding the Access-A-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee. In the 1990s, the Regional Transportation
District established the ADA Paratransit Advisory Committee to promote its effective, efficient, and customer
response of transit services known as the Access-A-Ride.
APAC members have been engaged in dialogue with the RTD staff on issues, trans needs, policies and
resources pertaining to Access-A-Ride services throughout the district and offer a unique perspective with
the goal of continuously improving those services.
Paratransit is a demand responsive transit service required by the Americans with Disabilities Act. APAC
provides input to RTD that is intended to improve the quality of accessibility of Access-A-Ride services,
advance the need of the disabled customers who rely on Access-A-Ride services, strengthen
communication between RTD and the organizations that advocate for the needs of Access-A-Ride
customers, promote collaboration, transparency, and information sharing, ensure meaningful and diverse
community input, participation, and involvement in RTD's paratransit related services.

So for tonight, we're obviously wanting to have a presentation by Brenda Carney as a member of the APAC
committee. And she's going to talk about the January 12, 2021 APAC meeting. And we look to continue to
bring members from APAC to provide some presentations as we continue down this road. So with that, I'd
like to introduce Brenda Carney, APAC member for the January 12, 2021 report, which is also contained in
your packet. So with that, Brenda, thank you. Brenda, can you hear us?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think she's working on getting unmuted.
MICHAEL FORD: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: And I apologize, Mr Ford. Mr. Buter face was right next to mine. I didn't see you there
waiting to speak.
MICHAEL FORD: No worries.
KATE WILLIAMS: Brenda, I see you now. If you can unmute, then you can give us your report. There you
go.
BRENDA CARNEY: There we go. OK. I'm going to have to-- I'm just going to put here, and I apologize. I
don't know what you guys can see. I'm visually impaired, and I don't do these things well. So we'll start
anyway. So thank you for allowing me to speak.
So we have several things under concern for me. And one of the biggest things had to do with a project
which was sort of started by the RTD IT department. One of his major clients is Access-A-Ride.
And we have been struggling for years to get an accessible application, something that all people with
disabilities can use to schedule our trips individually, rather than having to call into the call center. It saves
time for us, time for them, whatever.
So we had been struggling with this. And Brandon is our hero. Because he said, well, I think we can take it
on internally. And, by golly, he did. So we tested, I think it was in September, and the original application
was released in October. And it was great, but there are always things in our applications. So they worked
on the little things and put them out as fast as they could, but they had a larger set of requests that people
had as they used it.
And so they had another request for APAC to test at our January 12 meeting. And they put out things like
ability to implement drop off and-- hang on I can't read. They gave us the ability to put in individual address
lists.
Let's see. They have the fare that we have to pay listed now. They now show the driver number on the
ETA. The general contact number for the phone number is on the bottom of the screen. And they moved
the ability to book trips from two to five days to one to five days. So it was a pretty big release.
So we tested after that, and they implemented that release. And like I said, Brandon is our hero. They're
amazing in IT. And the Access-A-Ride staff has been amazing around this. So I just want to give kudos to
both sides. Yay.
So our next thing that we discussed-- if I can ever figure out my notes here-- is that RTD was releasing an
RFP for the new-- I can talk-- eligibility and travel training vendor. And so we discuss when that was going
to be, et cetera.
Let's see. Hang on. Sorry. So RTD has discussed with us the idea of a proposed pilot for a combination of
Access-A-Ride and fixed route for people who can't get to fix route, but once they can get there, they can
access it.

So this would help with peak time travel, especially. And so that was-- and that hasn't been started yet, but
it's in the works, as I understand it. So let's see. We were also informed that our RTD was developing
requirements for new software vendors. That's another yay.
And in October, RTD began a six month pilot with Uber about actually taking customers from Access-ARide on trips. And the first phase was focused on four zip codes. So kind of a small area. And it was also
focused on people who are ambulatory, or who can fold wheelchairs into a sedan truck.
They discussed that pilot with us and explained it to us and kind of let us know how it was going. So the
second phase will be after that completes, it would be for a wheelchair-- sorry-- a wheelchair accessible
vehicle component, which as I understand it, one of the vehicles will be actually go through the Uber app,
but they will be run via one of RTD's contractors. So that was interesting.
So then we discussed what data or information or feedback we would like to receive for this year. And we
had wanted more discussion on the fixed route and the Access-A-Ride combination pilot. Also, on travel
training. And once the winner gets selected for that, they'll come to discuss that with us.
We wanted information on what the status of the Colfax investment project and the 16th Street Mall
development. And we also wanted information on the centralized 70 construction and the impacts on transit
that would be in and around the areas of North Denver. So basically, those were the kind of things that we
discussed. And that's the end of my status.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Brenda. Mr. Ford, have any one thing you want to add to that?
MICHAEL FORD: No, I really appreciate the report, and I thank her for-- Brenda, thank you for your
participation today.
BRENDA CARNEY: Well, thank you very much for allowing me. It was lovely.
KATE WILLIAMS: Appreciate you bringing us all that information, Brenda. That was great. OK. I think we're
going to move on to the next item and our discussions, which is stakeholder engagement service
adjustments. And-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Hello, I'm sorry?
BOBBY DISHELL: Chair Rivera-Malpiede is first.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Brenda. Thank you so much for that report. It was great. I just had
one question. What is the timeline for the first phase to end and the second phase to start?
KATE WILLIAMS: Brenda, can unmute if you have the answer? And if not, is there a staff member-BRENDA CARNEY: Got it.
KATE WILLIAMS: What?
BRENDA CARNEY: So the original pilot, the first phase, was six months. And so that exceeded where the
boundary of our meeting. But maybe I can speak a little bit out of turn now. I think they're now on phase
two.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
BRENDA CARNEY: It's the same zippy's and everything. You know, the same population. And if anybody
from RTD, if I got that wrong, please feel free to let us all know.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair, does that answer your question?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It does. The only other question, and this might be one for the staff, is what
are the four zip codes that are being identified for this service?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford? Brena?
BRENDA CARNEY: Am I muted again?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, you're fine, go ahead.
BRENDA CARNEY: OK. Well, let's see if I can get this right. They are, I think, 80213 to 16. I know the last
four digits. And I apologize, that was one thing I didn't write down. But they're in the Aurora kind of
Centennial area, as I understand. So it's either 80213 through 16, or 80013 through 16. I apologize for that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, no, no. That's fine. Thank you so much. That's all my questions. Thank
you so much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Director Lewis, I see your hand.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have one question. It's a question maybe for the staff.
First, I'd like to thank you Brenda-- this is Director Lewis-- for coming and giving us this update. Really
appreciate it. The question that I have-- yeah, absolutely. The question that I have for the staff is regarding
the discussion what data information and/or feedback would APAC members like to get or give in the
coming years? And I was just curious of how that information would flow back to APAC members? The
requested information.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, I'll ask Larry or Paul to maybe comment on that, please.
PAUL HAMILTON: This is Paul Hamilton, Sr. Manager of Paratransit Services. If I understand Director
Lewis's question, it's how would we ensure that any input that the directors are giving flows back to the
APAC committee members. Is that correct?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, thank you. I'm so glad you asked that clarifying question, Mr. Hamilton. I was
actually asking, it's the information at the APAC members, I believe, were requesting from RTD for their
agenda for the year. And so a few things that I can pull out is the 16th Street Construction, Colfax
investment, the Central Savani construction. It looks like a request for information.
PAUL HAMILTON: I understand, so at the bottom of the agenda.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Correct.
PAUL HAMILTON: They were outlining some of the things that were discussion topics that they might like
to take on over the course of the year. But one of the ways that they go about adding items to the agenda
for each meeting is, at the end of each meeting, they are all polled as to what items they would like to take
on at the next specific meeting, whereas this was the first meeting of the year, and they were kind of trying
to come up with a laundry list of things that they might like to take on or have us provide feedback to.
But in most instances, any time something comes up like this-- and as you say, in the case of the Colfax
investments-- we would research whatever the specific question was and then come back with a report at
the very next meeting.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see. I see. So you're not necessarily going to give every single thing that's here. It's
just an opportunity for some ideation. And then if they decide to move forward on whatever this request is,
then that would be responded with data in a presentation.
PAUL HAMILTON: Correct.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK. Thank you so much for that. And then I have a question for you, Brenda, if
you're up for it. And you can answer this question now, or you can--

BRENDA CARNEY: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --take a moment and maybe come back to it. But I am curious as to what would be
helpful for us as Board members that we should know from the APC members, or how when you all are
meeting, is there anything important for us to know, or a way that you like to interface with us, or be involved
with us? I really appreciate you coming to give us this presentation, and I would hate for you to leave without
anything to report back to APAC members, as you've had an opportunity to converse with the Board.
BRENDA CARNEY: That's lovely. That's very good question. I think-- is not Director Williams going to
become more closely involved with us? Do I remember correctly?
KATE WILLIAMS: That is correct, Brenda. That was why I was announcing myself at the meeting today.
And then I will help report back.
BRENDA CARNEY: Yeah, to me, that's a great interface, that one of you guys is actually directly taking
that on, and maybe either meeting at the meetings, or meeting with us, or however you so choose. I was
actually pretty impressed with that. So I think that's a good start.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Beautiful. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it, Brenda. You have a wonderful
evening.
BRENDA CARNEY: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Director Lewis. We good to go? I don't see any other hands before
I let Brenda take a break and somebody else take the floor, which I-BRENDA CARNEY: I thought I heard somebody.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I don't see any hands. Any other questions? OK. Guess not. Thanks again,
Brenda.
BRENDA CARNEY: Thank you so much. See you later.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I think the next item that we have is the stakeholder engagement service
adjustments. And I believe that Ms. Tonilas is going to speak to that? Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. This is actually going to be a collaboration
between myself and Chief Operations Officer Michael Ford and Senior Manager of Service Planning, Jessie
Carter. So I will start off the presentation. And I will attempt to share my screen, hopefully successfully for
all of you.
Let's see if this works.
KATE WILLIAMS: Pauletta, you're very soft to my ear. I don't know about anybody else.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Oh, OK. Can you hear me better? Now? Can you see my screen?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
PAULETTA TONILAS: OK. I'll try to get a little closer to the mic-KATE WILLIAMS: There it is.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Can you hear me OK?
KATE WILLIAMS: That's better. Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: OK, great. So I am here to talk to you about the stakeholder engagement process
that we did at the beginning of this service change process. As we reported to you previously, we are really
implementing an enhanced approach to stakeholder engagement across the whole agency. And General
Manager Johnson has talked about this, where she, coming in to the organization, wants to listen more
than she speaks.

She's talked about wanting to go where the people are. We agree, and we have been out there in force in
many stakeholder meetings. And so part of this enhanced approach to engagement was us doing the quiet
zone education meetings that we recently did across all the commuter rail corridors. We did those last week
at each of our commuter rail lines with the residents that live along those lines.
And then, also starting this stakeholder listening process as part of our service change process moving
forward. So these listening sessions that we held, we did at various stakeholder meetings, where we went
to stakeholders in their meetings where they meet.
But then we also held five geographic sector meetings, as you recall. And many of you did attend those
meetings, where we invited stakeholders who we work with a lot as it relates to service in their communities
to engage with us and tell us what their thoughts are as it relates to RTD service in their area. What are
they hearing from their communities? What are they seeing in terms of people recovering back from the
pandemic? And these were really fruitful discussions.
What we did was hold 10 original meetings with people from the time frame of January 28 to February 22.
And you see on the screen, some of these that we held with the Boulder County mobility for all group, the
Denver Local Coordinating Council, and also our Citizens Advisory Committee, and the Regional Transit
Mobility Organization and Association Group. So these are all of our TMO-TMA partners across the region.
And DRCOG hosts a quarterly meeting with those groups, and we went to that meeting, where they all
meet and use that as a listening session.
And then we also did one with our partners at Denver Public Schools and listened to them and their
feedback as they try to march back to in-person learning and what lies ahead for the next semester. The
five geographic sector meetings that I mentioned, we did have quite a good participation across the Board
with the meetings that we held. We had about 155 attendees that gave us their thoughts, their opinions,
and what ended up being helpful feedback for us before the drafting of the service change for June actually
started.
Some of what we heard in our stakeholder listening sessions, really, we boiled these down to a number of
themes. Things like people wanted to see equitable service return. And what that really means is, let's try
to serve the people who are most transit-dependent, so the people who rely on transit most. Also, making
sure that we're continuing to move essential workers to get to the places where they want and need to go.
And then, as students start to need to get back to their campuses, making sure that we're crafting our
service adjustments to meet the students' needs.
Also, how can we make sure that vaccine distribution sites are accessible to people who will be able to take
RTD service. The in-school learning support as it relates to the largest school district, Denver Public
Schools, I mentioned the meeting that we held with our partners there. And we use that as an opportunity
to also talk to them about what lies ahead for even next fall semester.
Suspended and canceled services, a really interesting piece of feedback was people wanting to know more
of, what is the service that has been canceled by RTD through the various service adjustments? And what
is just suspended? And so, us to trying to make it clear of suspended service that we think is more on the
edge of possibly being brought back.
Also, transparent communication about service and how we design that. And what that really means is how
we determine the service that we will incrementally be bringing back into operation. Other themes that we
heard were the more highly utilized routes, how can we continue to add frequency to those routes as needed
and as we see more and more riders go back to those more popular routes? Our FlexRide service, our on-

demand service, and educating people about that service. A lot of people are not aware of the great service
that we have with FlexRide.
Reliability on rail and bus. So because we have cut back on service, the reliability being even more
important that we need to ensure for our bus and train routes. And then they really did appreciate that we
are holding this process, the stakeholder engagement process. They would just like to make sure that we
get those meetings on their calendars and let them know about that sooner.
Obviously, us trying this out as a pilot, we jumped right in, and so there wasn't as much notice for those
geographic sector meetings. But for the next round, we will get those on people's calendars sooner. And
then, we did get some feedback on more specific routes, people wanting to see additional service or what
we could do on specific routes.
This is just a graphic to depict what we're trying to achieve with our enhanced engagement process.
Obviously, those stakeholder listening sessions start us off on our service change process. And then we,
of course, bring that draft service plan back to the Board, which is what we're doing tonight, after taking
what we heard from our stakeholders into consideration as one data point and one set of information that
our staff considers as they draft that service plan.
And then from there, we will take these out to our public partners and our customers, the people who we
move, and we'll ask them to weigh in on these service adjustments through our public meetings that we'll
hold at the end of the month. Then, we'll bring the final plan back to the Board of Directors. And then that
final service change will be implemented, in this case, in June.
And then we start over with the engagement process. This engagement process really is ongoing. We'll be
having dialogue with our stakeholders as we have meetings with them even now. So it isn't going to be just,
OK, folks, it's time for the stakeholder listening sessions. We will continue to listen, continue to engage. But
then that specific listening session process will begin as we start that next service change process. We are
going to be doing a debrief to look at what went really well, what things can we tweak through that listening
session process and refine that. And then that, of course, is what we will march forward with.
The upcoming service change public hearings will be at the end of the month. So we'll be doing three of
these meetings virtually. And the times that we have set for these meetings are what we have found to be
best suited for people to engage with us in a virtual setting. We will have these recorded and do these in
English and Spanish. And, of course, we'll be promoting these in great form in our various channels.
I am going to now turn this section over to Michael Ford, our Chief Operations Officer. Michael?
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Pauletta. I want to talk a little bit about the financial and service impacts. As
you are aware, we received $232 million in shares at CARES Act funding 2020. And we are in a position to
receive another $203 million of CRRSAA funds.
That money is intended to support transit operators, including keeping staff employed, recall layoff
represented employees, which we've been actively engaged in and brought a number of people back.
Resend furlough days and pay reductions for salaried employees, and providing supplemental service for
our busier routes, meaning that we'd be running extra sections to help augment the needs for those
particular routes.
With regard to COVID-19, which we're still in, we're carrying about 40% of our ridership, our pre-pandemic
ridership, and we're putting in about 60% of our service out there. There are limited abilities to increase
service due to operator availability. We continue to work on that to make sure we have enough folks, and

that's an ongoing issue. But we're working on that very diligently. And capacity limits due to social
distancing, require supplemental services, I just want to re-emphasize that.
Next slide, please. So service changes during COVID-19. A lot of things to consider as we move forward.
Overall system ridership, looking at the data, ridership on routes, lines, levels of support, , and increased
adjustments is another focus area that we consider. System maintenance to improve our on-time
performance. Managing tweaks and making improvements where we have noted the issues or concerns.
Performance, reliability, and contract compliance. We have a collective bargaining agreement that we have
to adhere to. So that also is another consideration that we have to focus on. And the adjustments for transit
system connectivity, to make sure our service is totally integrated and continues that way.
Many challenges, though, that exist. Maintaining resources, the capacity to support social distancing,
transforming unscheduled service hours that we've been putting out there into scheduled hours. So that's
another focus and challenge and expectation of return to service. How can we be poised and ready, nimble,
to address a lot of ever-changing issues?
A picture is worth a thousand words, and if you can look at the pre-COVID operator with one bus, that's
one operator carrying 25 people, and our reality today is we're going to need-- and we have two operators,
two buses, carrying 25 people. So, again, putting more resources out, operators and buses, to carry what
we were carrying in a g time. So that puts a major strain on the system. Next slide.
And then, again, a lot of the things that we're doing with Board-adopted guidelines or guiding principles, if
you will, to help us manage through this COVID period. These guidelines were adopted a while ago when
we were starting up to just give staff guidance on how we can move forward. So looking at ServiceNow
standard, service utilization's effect on the integrity of the transit network to transit-dependent people, these
are things that we consider and try to adhere to.
Alternative service availability to impacted customers. Obviously, focused in Title VI on Civil Rights Act.
Respond to changes in communities. So being nimble, understanding what people are having to say,
listening, and trying to make adjustments where we can. And cost-effective distribution and the ability to
enhance service when possible. So all these things are integral to how we try to manage the service and
make it as productive and meeting the needs of our customers, constituents, and stakeholders.
So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Jessie Carter to go into some more details around the June 20,
2021 service proposal, and I'll turn it over to Jessie.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, thanks, Michael. First question, can everyone hear me? Head nod? OK. All right,
good.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, we hear you fine, Jessie.
JESSIE CARTER: Great. Thanks. It may sound like I'm shouting at because I have this thing really close
to my mouth. But at the same time, I just want to go over some of the more notable service changes that
we have proposed. The first one is Route 15, Colfax. East Colfax currently represents the largest of our
bus routes in terms of retained ridership. It constitutes-- the 15 by itself is 34% of the calls that we get for
buses over capacity are on the Roue 15, so we're proposing to increase the service level on that route.
So that speaks to some of what Michael spoke about earlier, and that is making sure that we're looking at
utilization in ridership and utilization of our services. And then moving to the Route 20, this proposal extends
the East terminal from the Anschutz Medical Campus to our East Metro Division. And this is one of those
CBA compliance type of changes, where we're trying to create a situation in which we have a respite area
that is open for our operator.

Moving onto the Route 28. The Route 28, we're proposing to extend that route from 30th and Downing
Station to Central Park Station, providing better connectivity to the University of Colorado A Line, and also
to address some requests that we've heard from a senior center located just East of downtown.
Also, the route 40, this is one of two service reductions that we're proposing. This discontinues the extension
between 40th and Colorado Station to 60th and Dahlia in Commerce City. And we're proposing that
because it duplicates exactly the Route 49, which was introduced in September of last year.
We are also proposing that Route 44 change its terminal at Ward Road Park and Ride to Wheat Ridge
Ward Road Station. This is a station that is just across the roadway, not too far. It also involves Route 38,
which would do the same thing. This would, of course, provide better connectivity between our bus system
and our rail system.
The route 99, when we look at the geographic layout of our current network, we see a couple of gaps. There
are two that are mentioned here, one being the route 99 South Kipling Service. We're proposing to restore
the weekday service on an hourly basis between Southwest Plaza and Federal Center Station. Again, this
connects our bus system to our rail system as well.
So next slide, please. Moving forward to the Route 169L. This service was our, when we count the number
of customer requests from September going into January, February, this was the number one request that
we heard from our customers. And that was to restore their previous weekday schedule on the 169L. 169L
provides a local type service to Denver International Airport.
The Route 324 in Longmont, we are proposing to increase weekday service to 30 minutes. And, again,
that's to address passengers/customer overloads. We're also planning to do the-- we're proposing to do the
same thing, with Route 326, also in Longmont. And again, here we are with another geographic trying to
better make up gaps in our network with the route 483. And that's service between Parker and the Lincoln
Station, so that would provide local service between the town of Parker, connecting to the Southeast
corridor at Lincoln station.
And then we have The route bound in Boulder. We're proposing to increase the service frequency from
every 30 minutes to every 15 minutes. And that's to address some overcrowding that we're seeing. And
then, finally, Route RX. We made some changes to the Route RX with the September 2020 service change,
and now we need to make some additional tweaks to the actual schedule to make it perform a little bit better
as far as on-time performance.
So with that, I want to summarize. Next page, OK? So with that, the overall estimated financial impact, what
we're aiming to do, is to make this a cost neutral service change. The operator impact, it will estimated cost
us an additional 29 full time equivalent employees to provide the service change. And this represents an
annualized increase of about 73,000 hours.
With this service change in June, it's June 13, 2021. Our school service, our special service orders for
school service would be canceled as well. So with that, I do want to mention that we do have the three
service-- or, actually, the three public hearings that we hope to even get more information, and we'll continue
to make tweaks to the proposal as we normally do and we may come back to you in the April meeting with
an increased level of ask. So with that, I'd like to go to the next slide and say, thank you all for your time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Great. Thank you, Mr Ford, Ms. Tonilas, Mr. Carter. Any feedback from any of you before
I start looking for questions? OK. I think that's where we're going to now. I see Director Broom has his hand
up.

BOB BROOM: I was just curious from an accounting standpoint how you add service, but there's no
budgetary impact. Could you explain that?
JESSIE CARTER: Director Broom, this is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling. The
way we're looking at it, we are currently employing a number of operators that don't have assigned work.
So when you look at-- let's take, for instance, the Route 15, where we operate it, but we currently have to
add in a lot of unscheduled service with those operators.
If we then turn the work that we're covering with unscheduled operators and we actually provide that with
a scheduled operator, we haven't employed a new operator, which is a great deal of the cost of adding
service, and we aren't employing a new vehicle to actually provide that service. So that's looked at as, in a
sense, a wash. I hope that answers your question.
BOB BROOM: It does. The other thing I was curious about, we've said that we're operating at a 60% service
level. Does this make it 62%, or what is the impact on that?
JESSIE CARTER: Excellent question. And I'm still working on that figure, but to give you an idea, if I were
to look at the bus service by itself, weekday, it constituted about a 3% increase in our service overall. So
it's going to be somewhere between a 35 and a 4% increase.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much. That's all I have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director I'm not sure who was first, Director Bouquet or Director Lewis.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I think Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Lewis, you go for it. I saw your hand waving.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Lewis, you're up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair and thank you Director Bouquet. I actually do have a few
questions, so maybe Director Bouquet might regret allowing me to go first. The first question is actually for
Pauletta with the listening sessions. And I appreciate the work that your staff and your team has done
around this. And I had a question regarding representation from non-profit folks and the folks that they
might serve in terms of participants. And then the attendees, I wasn't clear if this was 154 folks total, or 154
folks attended for a session.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, thank you for that. Those are great questions. So to answer your first one
about the non-profits and groups that were represented, so I mentioned that Boulder County Mobility for
All, or the Boulder Local Coordinating Council, and also the Denver Local Coordinating Council, both of
those groups have representation from a cross-section of community groups and social service
organizations, people who represent persons with disabilities and such.
So that's why we chose those meetings, because those are great groups that have a cross representation
of our community and various community partners, different sectors of our community. And so, they were
represented in those groups. We also had some additional feedback through our Citizens Advisory
Committee.
And then the number, that 155 people that I mentioned. So of the meetings that we held where we focused
the discussion on the service change, there were 155 total people.
SHONTEL LEWIS: For each one of them? Total for each of the sessions collectively?
PAULETTA TONILAS: All of them together, so-SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it.

PAULETTA TONILAS: So like, sector meetings that we had, those were invites that went out to specific
individuals who typically work with us on service-related matters. And so each of those five sector meetings,
we did not have dozens of people on those. We had probably somewhere in the neighborhood of 25 to 30
external people on those meetings with us. And then the other groups that I mentioned, those all rounded
up to about 155.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I'm sorry. Thank you for the clarity. I do appreciate it. Do you all collect any
demographic data, or any data of any sort for the attendees? Like, do know if folks are current riders, or if
they-- anything about them of any sort.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, great question. No, we know that the people, for instance, who were on the
five sector meetings with us, those are our partners. Some of them, elected officials. The staff that we work
with, the DMO and TMAs. And many of those people are riders, but we don't have demographics across
the Board. In the other stakeholder meetings that we have, we know that they are transit advocates and
frequent riders, but that's a great question.
We could look at how we might be able to pull that through the next round that we do, and do some kind of
just a temperament check on that. So thank you for the suggestion.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Pauletta. I do appreciate that. I'd be interested in of the attendees, who is a
current rider, versus who might just be an advocate, not that there's any weight to be given to either. Just
I'd be curious of that delineation.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you for that on packet page 33, titled "Expanded Engagement Process LifeCycle," a question I have, or maybe a recommendation, or maybe from the work that I used to do in
community engagement, after the public hearings, it appears to-- and I know that Jesse's team does this to
some extent, and Pauletta, I'm sure your team does as well, that once you all receive information from the
public, you then use that information to potentially provide different recommendations to the Board.
But is not necessarily reflected in there and I'd love-- because I know you all do it-- for that maybe to be
included, so the public doesn't think that we asked them to come, give their input, and then we just go
directly to the Board with the presentation that we had decided prior to asking for their input.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, Director Lewis, thank you for that. That's a good comment. I think what we
could do, because this is something we'll use this-- I'm pointing, because I'm looking at it on this other
monitor. That graphic is something that we will continue to use, and I think it does make sense between the
public hearings and the Board approval piece on that line, that we can add another dot stop along the way,
if you will, that articulates that.
Because, yes, and this is something Jessie and his team always do, what we hear in those public hearings.
There have been things that have caused Jessie and his team to make tweaks, to what then becomes the
final plan. And so it's not like those are just canned meetings. And so I think that's a great suggestion, and
we can look to change that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. Thank you so much.
JESSIE CARTER: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure, go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: I will mention that in the second form after we come out of the public hearing process,
in the Board paper, there is a segment where we speak to the changes that were made after we had the
public hearings. And typically, I mean you can take a look at the more recent changes of January or

September, you'll see that there are changes that were made to the proposal, based on either public input
or more information that we gathered during that whole process.
So that's a common occurrence. And that's something I definitely would want the Board to know. So thank
you for asking that question and giving me the opportunity to point it out.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely, no. And I know that, because I've worked with you all, and you all have done
exactly that. And I'd love the general public to know that it's not just a vault where we get your input, and
then we lock it in then do whatever we want to do as we move forward. So I just wanted to call that out. So
thank you for that.
On packet page 33, I guess I have a question on how these virtual meetings are going-- I had two questions.
One, how are the virtual meetings going to be advertised again? I'm really thinking about folks who are
currently riding and how we are going to ensure that the folks who might be impacted by some of these
changes, moving from 30-minute frequencies-- from 60 to 30-- I'm sure folks would be excited about that.
But if there's a change that might interrupt their day-to-day lives, I'm just curious how we might get some of
those folks to attend to hear from them. Just curious.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, so the upcoming virtual meetings that we're having, the public hearings at the
end of the month?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, ma'am.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, so those meetings, we, of course, widely promote. We make those available,
of course, through recorded format that we then put on the Board website. As far as various other folks who
want to participate and give us feedback, one thing that we do is we share the information through our
various channels so that they are making sure and sharing it with their constituents.
We do use our network of Social Service organizations and community groups to make sure that they know
when those meetings are happening. And so that's how we're promoting the three virtual meetings that we'll
be having at the end of the month. And do the best we can to feed people to the channels that we have
where they can always provide feedback. For instance, the email or the phone line that the Jesse's team
has set up.
JESSIE CARTER: And also, Pauletta's team is doing a great job in putting together a brochure and
transfluxes to go on the buses to notify folks of both the changes and the meeting dates.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Have we ever tried to send those notices via a rider alert to let folks know?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, Director, not specifically through a rider alert. I think there's a way that we
could potentially do that. I will say that we've had a discussion of late about how to potentially use the rider
alerts for even when the horns are blowing on the commuter rail lines. That's one that we can look at. We
do have a mass distribution list that we also send it out to, so tens of thousands, actually, of people who
are on our distribution list. And that goes to a number of people, cross-section of the region.
And so we do this in numerous ways. And as Jesse mentioned, I didn't mention some of those other
channels. But we're trying to get the word out as much as possible because the more people we can get
into this process, the better off I think that our whole service adjustment process will be. So we will continue
to look for ways to make sure that we're sharing that through as many channels, including through our
community partners, as possible.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And you might hear a focus on the folks who are currently riding, just
because my assumption is, based on what we were presenting, that they are transit-dependent, so they

don't have any other options. And so I just want to make sure that folks are able to access the things that- whatever it is for their livelihood.
And then, finally, Jeese I don't expect you to be able to answer this question, or Mr. Ford, on the spot, but
I'm curious of the L line on ridership, more specifically the impact of riders with the L Line changes, and the
impact of ridership for the 40 as well.
And then, I'm generally just curious of the ridership. Like, how many people are we carrying per day, maybe
on our rail, on commuter rail, light rail, and on our buses? I'm just generally curious of what those numbers
might be. And so you can give me those three answers offline, because I'm sure you don't have them
available. But I just thought I'd ask for them.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Director Lewis. And yeah, it is pretty difficult to answer and give you the
proper detail on some of those questions. We are still in around the, I want to say, 130,000 to 140,000
boardings per day in the system, which isn't up or down from where we were say in September. We had
some fluctuations in ridership, of course, over the holidays, and that's to be understood.
As far as the L Line service change, if you look at the detail on the proposal, it was to eliminate one trip in
the evening. So that trip doesn't have very high ridership. One that I am more concerned about that I would
like to hear some input from the public is the route 40, because currently, they may have a direct trip,
whereas if we eliminate the duplication between it and the 49, we may be requiring our customers to
transfer.
So that's something, of course, we're going to be listening for and trying to get a better understanding of
how folks are using that service.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
JESSIE CARTER: And I will follow up with more detail on those questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you kindly. I do appreciate it. So we have the 40 as well. Thank you so much.
That's it. That's all I had, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I'd like to make a note that there is not public comment available as part of
this committee meeting. I believe that there is somebody from the public that has got a hand up. But
unfortunately, we had that opportunity earlier in this meeting, and we're not having public comment in this
committee meeting. However, you can address an email or a phone call to any of the Directors or to the
staff at the RTD main office. The main number is there is on the website. Everything there is-- unless you
need something more 303-299-6000, if you need the phone number.
Then I will get to some of the other directors. And thank you all for your patience. I believe that Director
Bouquet is next.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. You're right, Director Lewis. I shouldn't have let you gone
first, because you asked a lot of the questions that I was going to ask. So thank you for asking that. And
just kind of clarifying, because that was my concern too is like, sometimes you'll hear-- as a teacher, I hear,
oh, we have listening sessions for teachers. We have listening sessions for students. And then our Board
listens, and it feels like it just kind of goes, like Director Lewis says, into a vault.
Can you guys just kind of expand just a little bit of, when you guys are making these service changes, is it
kind of based on the popularity, from these listening sessions? And/or is it based on popularity of, we're
getting phone calls about this line, or is there another factor that I might be overlooking with what ultimately
makes the decisions in these service changes?

JESSIE CARTER: Sure, Director Bouquet, that's an excellent question. How we are informed about how
our services are doing comes from a multitude of areas, some being passive ways of looking at ridership
through our automatic passenger counting system. The other is directly coming to us via the customers
themselves calling. Other is looking at dashboards provided by our Bus Operations and Rail Operations
teams, who are looking at overcapacity routes and monitoring that on a day-to-day basis.
Other personal observations, of course, on the system, because we're transit nerds and we look at things
from time to time. So what happens typically in the public process is we get kind of affirmation as to some
of the things that we've been hearing, both via the phone and also directly in our own observations.
So I'm going to say, and take a cheat on this, and say, it's all of the above. We learn from the customer
directly. We learn from the customer through stakeholder representation. And we learn from our system
itself, through looking at the tools that we have to analyze our services. I hope that answers your question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No that was perfect. I appreciate it. And then just one last question in everyone's sake
of time. Just kind of out of curiosity, so if we hear public feedback during these listening sessions, things
like popularity for a certain route, or there might be certain tweaks or certain additions to one route, would
that necessarily mean a sacrifice for other routes if we were to add for specifically this June change, or
June service change?
JESSIE CARTER: Excellent question. Excellent question. Director Bouquet, it can mean that we'd have to
sacrifice one for another if we're trying to stay within the context of the budget and have reasonable impacts
on our operator availability and other resources. So if the request is somehow reasonable to tweak to a
schedule, those are things that we listen to and hear on a daily basis.
If it's asking for said favored route to come back, well, that's different that may actually require taking that
Board to a future service change. And that may be the case too, but that's one thing that's kind of hard to
explain to the constituency. And that is, just because it's not something that's taken care of right away in
the upcoming service change is not that it's forgotten. We store that in our data bank. And I'm very optimistic
and hopeful that we can get to a point where we're returning service near term.
I'm hoping that what I'm hearing from the different municipalities and across the United States that perhaps
going into the fall, we're looking at more of a return to service. But that's not to say that we can't look at
some tweaks to the system. So I hope that answers your question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: That's perfect. Thank you for your time.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you both. Great discussion. I believe that Director Guissinger has her hand up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, bravo. I think this is a great idea, a great series
of meetings. I've had a lot of feedback, both among my constituents and my local planners and elected
officials. And also, it came up with the Accountability Committee, and I've heard it from some of those
members from DRCOG. So I think this is a great process.
I think as Miss Johnson said, if I quote her correctly, she referred to it as an Evergreen process the other
day. And I like that, this is something that we'll be doing and building on. In that regard, I'd say, Pauletta,
one thing I did hear, you said you'd start earlier and expand the invitations. People that I would have thought
would be getting invitations said they didn't, and I sent you one of those. But I heard it from a couple of
others. So I would encourage that, looking at that. And also, of course, as Director Lewis was saying, the
nonprofits, the riders, all of those.

But, you know, I think a lot of this advice on what needs to open next and things like that does come from
our local planners. So I hope we can get them all included. And many of them where I think. The one I
attended was well attended and people really appreciated it.
I think it's worth considering expanding of beyond service. Talking about partnerships, and some of the
other things that, as you go along, I think it's a good way to get feedback. You know, I've sent out to the
Board. We sent out the draft for subregional forums, or local service councils. And I don't know whether the
Accountability Committee is going to go there or not, whether they're going to come up with something or
what it would look like. I hope they will do something along the lines of what they suggested and send it
back to RTD.
But what you're doing is it was a very good step towards answering the concern there, because a lot of that
was about just getting feedback. So I think that's great, and encourage-- have we heard-- you mentioned
vaccine distribution sites. And I've seen a couple little things about what we're doing in the vaccine world.
But I don't know, have I missed-- is there-- I think we're giving some free rides, or they're using a space of
ours or. something. Could I get a quick update on that?
SPEAKER: If I may, Director Guissinger, I'll address that question. Yes, we're working in a myriad of
different forms in reference to addressing the need to get people inoculated, recognizing that this is a fluid
response effort relative to vaccines being available, and there's not a centralized conduit in which to do
that. We've remained flexible and agile as we've coordinated with a myriad of different entities, recognizing
that there was one instance most recently, whereby we were contacted, and we leveraged one of our
parking lots for our drive-thru aspect of a vaccination site. That was done with the help of Mr. Stopplecamp's
team.
But more specifically, we have partnered with SLC in reference to having different vaccination promotions
whereby we were transporting individuals. We are currently working in tandem internally, that is, as it relates
to maximizing the opportunity to have our staff, our employees, I should qualify, as is being vaccinated.
And that's whereby at first, we thought we could get a facility on site. But that's changed in the sense of
having a place to store the vaccines and things of the like.
So as we go through this, it's an iterative process, and we're remaining steadfast and hope to get additional
information as it comes full circle in the next couple of days about what the next steps are, since it was
stated that public transportation, front-line employees would be eligible commencing March 5th, and we're
waiting for further updates as it relates to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. I'm glad they've got our employees commencing March 5th.
SPEAKER: Well, as I said, that's what's been slated as it rolls out. So I want to manage expectations.
[LAUGHS]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, yeah. No, I [AUDIO OUT]. Yeah, I mean, I think that's great information. I've
been seeing that other agencies are doing free rides and things. So if we had something to put out there, I
think it's great information to put out there.
SPEAKER: Right. And the one just caveat to that, I would like to say Director Guissinger, we're amenable
to that. But as we coordinate this in the sense that people have to be observed for a period of time thereafter.
That's what I mean with the adjustment of how we're doing this going forward. Because it's not as if we can
just take them and leave them there, then come back.
So as we figure out how that's all done, that's what we're doing. And I want to commend Michael Ford and
his staff. And I know Paul Hamilton was involved as well, as related to us reaching out to FTA as it pertains

to those that are utilizing paratransit services. Because quite naturally, in the midst of what is prescribed
under the guidelines of the Federal Transit Administration, we had to ensure that we could deviate from
what has been prescribed, and we worked on that as well.
But considering the vulnerable population, or what needs to happen in the observation, we do have the
ability now whereby we can have a paratransit vehicle sit there and wait for said customer. But we're still
working that through as we go forward. So I just wanted to qualify that. We've been coordinating with a
myriad of different entities trying to figure out how we could be best helpful.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I appreciate the update.
SPEAKER: You're welcome. Thank you for asking.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Ford, I just have one question. You mentioned we have a limited ability to increase
service due to operator availability. And I know there's all kinds of pieces in terms of scheduled hours and
things. But is that a limitation right now, or is that a limitation you see more-- we just brought on the operators
we just laid off. And I guess I'm just looking for sort of how those fit together.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, Michael Ford, COO. It's a balancing act. I mean, we have people that leave the
organization or retire. So you're always trying to keep on top of the curve in terms of resources. Again, I
mentioned also that we're having to expend more people and more equipment to carry less people, so that
puts a strain on the system as well.
So right now, we're continuing to monitor. We continue to meet weekly to talk about our needs and project
out so we're trying to keep on top of things. But obviously, it creates a stretch, because you're having to
limit or expand upon the resources you have to carry a limited amount of people. And again, that plays
havoc in trying to be as efficient as possible given that we're mass transit.
So it's an ongoing thing. And we'll continue to strive to make sure that we're staying on top of the issue and
make sure that we have enough people here, and that we don't go back to yesteryear.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. And just a final comment that I really appreciated Jessie Carter. I
can't see you now, but-- there you are. Your statement that you're hopeful in the next round that we'll be
able to really make a significant difference. Because schools will be back in, colleges will be back in. Many
people will be vaccinated. And I'm hopeful too, that by the time we get to the August or September,
whichever it is, the run board, that we'll be ready to really give up our service game. Thanks.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. And just to Director Guissinger, this is Jessie Carter, Manager of Service, Funding,
Scheduling. And just to add to that, my optimism doesn't equate a change in public health order. So I do
recognize that. But fingers crossed. With vaccinations and everything, I'm hoping to return service. I'd like
to get back to something more normal. And that may be me speaking more to wanting to see robust
ridership and our ability for our service to operate at their full capacity.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, that's just me agreeing, so thanks.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. All right.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger and Mr Carter, and everybody else in that discussion. I
think Director Catlin wants to have a discussion now.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll try to be brief. I wanted to echo the sentiments that I think this proactive outreach
Pauletta was-- was really a good start, and recognizing this will be the first time out of the chute in changing
this. I think it was good and we can only probably get better. And people will become more accustomed to
participating. So good job.

I also wanted to address Director Bouquet's comment. I have, on several occasions over the last three
years, worked with Jessie Carter and his staff to make tweaks to some of the proposed changes that did
result in a compromise or a better situation. And so I can say that constituents have indeed been heard on
at least a handful of occasions for me.
So I think that's great now. Getting down a little bit to the minutia, I really appreciated that Route 77-- or not
Route 77, Route 99, was reinstated. That does provide some necessary access from the people of South
Jefferson County, although there's a pretty big reach that extends beyond that, but I would hope that we
can take a look at our FlexRide system a little bit better.
And then I did get a letter from a constituent who was concerned about the Route 77, which is an EastWest transport from kind of the Western part of the county over to the light rail station at Mineral. And they
have a special needs child trying to get access to transit. And I know that that's a tough one, because
ridership was low. And hopefully, we can reinstate that service.
But Dan Merritt provided a wonderful response to this constituent that was very, very empathetic,
sympathetic, and really talked about, just because it was suspended does not mean it's been eliminated,
and that we will try to reinstate service. And the way he stated that was just very, very thoughtful. And I
really wanted to express my appreciation for his very timely response to that constituent. So that's all I have.
Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you Director Catlin. I will let Dan know.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. And Mr. Carter. OK. I believe Director Sloan is next. I did see
that Director Davidson and the Chair had their hands up. Looks like they have both given up. So I'm going
to take Director Sloan, and I'll give you guys a shot afterwards.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Director Williams. And this is really a follow-up to Directors Guissinger and
Catlin. The meetings were a great beginning for something that can be a true engagement between
localities and RTD. I love the question, something to the effect of, what should we know about what's going
on in your community that would affect our service.
I think that is a start of a true engagement. And the whole process could be-- Director-- Pauletta Tonilas
had the life cycle of it, but I think it can be even broader, because once a locality has brought something to
the attention, maybe it was almost there to get additional service, but there needed to be a partnership
between the locality and RTD to encourage more service.
And localities are getting really creative in terms of behavioral economics. And I think the locality, when
they learned what was needed to give that nudge, to get additional interest and additional ridership in
partnership with RTD. So it isn't just a you start all over again, it's you continue on with the information
you've already gathered. So it's a bigger circle than the loop that was indicated on the graphic. But great
start, and I think lots of good things can happen with this.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Thank you, Director Sloan. That was good. I'm going to take privilege for a
second and make a comment, and then I'll see if there's anybody else who wants to speak. I'm wondering
if it's possible that we listed the outreach meetings for a six month period so that people have time to plan
ahead.
I know that we list, for example, the Board meetings for the whole year. And at many organization-- DRCOG
has a calendar where they list all their meetings. And I'm wondering if it wouldn't help us if people could put
in their calendar that in May, there was going to be a meeting that involved their area. So just a thought.

Throwing it out there. And then I'm going to go back and see-- I see Director Davidson decided he's going
to come back again. So I'm going to yield the floor to him.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Appreciate it. Appreciate all the comments. Director Sloan,
thank you for your comment. I just wanted to echo the sentiment that I do believe we could do a bit more. I
wanted to also, just to throw out there for Mr. Ford and Ms. Tonilas and Mr. Carter that I have had the
opportunity to speak with a number of our transportation managers in some of the cities in District I and
around District I.
And I do think that there's a really great opportunity if we plan ahead to expand the agenda and do some
of those types of things, Director Sloan, you mentioned. So happy to talk offline, happy to share some of
the ideas, some of the brainstorming that's happening.
But I did also want to make sure to say, you know, obviously, we're in COVID. Things are tense. Things are
tough. We've faced difficult decisions of service cuts, and this is often thankless. So I would echo the
sentiments of others. It's a great first step. And actually, with the Longmont transportation Advisory Board
last night, Director Guissinger and I were at this, this came up, and a lot of folks were appreciative of earlier
communication and earlier opportunity.
And so this often goes thankless. Thank you, I know there's still a lot of tension out there. But certainly at
least last night, we had the opportunity to hear some really nice things from Longmont about the
involvement. So thanks for the first step.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Thank you, Director Davison. OK. Chairman Rivera-Malpiede, you had your
hand up at one point. Do you want to speak?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think all of the comments have been really good and the discussion's has
been amazing. I really want to thank our staff. The number of hours and logistics that have gone into this
process is just pretty astronomical. And I just wanted to say thank you. I did attend all of the quiet zone
meetings. I've been to so many meetings, and just the logistics is pretty amazing.
And I want to thank them publicly, and just say I so appreciate the work that you do on behalf of the region
and General Manager for your leadership on helping putting this through. I'm really looking forward to our
next step, because I think we are really moving at a very fast rate in change that is very positive and
proactive. And that's all. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I do not see anybody else's hand up. I do not see any more discussion items. Is
there anybody on the staff that has anything else that they want to add? Mr. Ford, Ms. Tonilas, Mr. Carter?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes ma'am.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Pauletta Tonilas, the Assistant General Manager of Communications, . The only
thing I would say to address what a few of you said is we actually have an internal staff debrief this Thursday
to talk about the engagement process and some tweaks, and some of you gave us some great ideas. So
the idea is to work ahead more to get these dates set so that people can plan ahead. So that is something
that we'll be working towards. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: No, I didn't have anything. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I don't see anybody else right now. We have no more discussion items. Are there
any other matters that anyone needs to bring before this committee tonight? Hearing crickets, our next

meeting date is April 13 at the same time in the same location. I would accept a motion to adjourn before
we take a 5-minute break between committees.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. And a second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have that. We are adjourned at 7:56, and we could come back, I believe, Director Catlin
at like, 8:01 maybe? 5 minutes? Everybody good?
PEGGY CATLIN: Sounds good. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: And thank you good night.

