2025-02-13
Audit Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: The Thursday, February 13 Audit Committee will now come to order. We are convened
as of 2:06 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are
recognized to speak. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held
remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the RTD Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available at RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Committee Member Brendel.
JIM BRENDEL: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Dishell.
JACK KROLL: Director Dishell is a little under the weather. He emailed earlier, so-PEGGY CATLIN: I know he was going to try to log in, but he is excused. OK. Director-- or Committee
Member Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I'm Peggy Catlin, and I am here. For the record, I see that we have four Directors
present. And I apologize for the noise. The first item on the agenda this afternoon is the selection of the
Committee Chair and Vice Chair. As a current returning Director on the Audit Committee, I will facilitate
the election and once both seats are filled, turn over the meeting to the new Committee Chair.
Unlike the Board's Executive Committee election process, which uses secret ballots for the election of
board officers for committee leadership appointments, we will proceed with open nominations, discussion,
and vote by the full committee. We will begin with selection of the Chair and then Vice Chair. We will allow
up to three minutes for those members who nominate a candidate. Those seconding nominations, if any,
and any other members who wish to speak regarding the candidates to speak.
I will then call for a vote and the candidate with the most votes will be appointed. If only one member is
nominated, the committee may proceed by acclamation and that member will be appointed. Any member

of the committee is eligible to serve as the Chair or Vice Chair. And that means either external members
of this committee or board members.
Mr. Kroll, given that we do not have five members present, I'm not quite sure how the vote needs to go.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, it would still be a majority, so you would still need three.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Wanted to clear that up. I do not see any other RTD Directors present in this
meeting, but we are joined by our external-- or our internal auditors, as well as our GM CEO, Debra
Johnson, and our CFO, Doug MacLeod, and our General Counsel, Melanie Snyder. So thank you all for
joining us.
So I will start by asking for nominations for the Committee Chair. Are there any nominations? Don't all
speak at once. Well, I might exercise an Acting Chair's privilege and nominate John Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: I appreciate the nomination. Jim Brendel and I had actually talked about it a little
bit before, as to if either one of us were interested in it, and I think I just have too much going on right
now. And so I'm going to respectfully decline that. I know we're not at this point yet, but Jim did mention
interest in being Vice Chair. But that still leaves us looking for a Chair at this moment. But again, I do
appreciate the nomination, and perhaps in a future year, that's something I would be interested in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that, John. If I can talk to you by your first name.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Well, I'm going to nominate, then, Director Vince Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you by default. I will accept that nomination.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Is there a second?
JOHN OLENBERGER: I'll second.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right. Thank you, John. All right. Are there any other nominations for Chair? Well,
seeing none, with only one member, that'd be Director Buzek, having been nominated as Committee
Chair, I will ask if anyone is opposed to appointing Member Buzek to the position of Committee Chair by
acclamation? Are there any objections?
Congratulations, I guess.
VINCE BUZEK: No, thank you. I'm eager. Thanks. I look forward to engaging in the work of the
committee. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Awesome. I'm now going to proceed with nominations for Committee Vice Chair. Yes?
JOHN OLENBERGER: I will-- I would like to nominate Mr. Brendel for Vice Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Second. Second.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. All right. Are there any other nominations? OK, with only member Brendel having
been nominated as Committee Vice Chair, I will ask if anyone is opposed to appointing member Brendel
to the position of Committee Vice Chair by acclamation? Seeing none, I'd like to congratulate Committee
Vice Chair Brendel on accepting this position as Committee Vice Chair and look forward to working with
both of you in the year ahead.
JIM BRENDEL: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm going to turn it over now to Committee Chair Buzek for the rest of the meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Catlin, and thank you all for your encouragement and support. So
let's move on. Next on our agenda is public comment, I believe. I'd like to open public comment to anyone
who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for
the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please
either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at RTD.directors@RTDDenver.com. Com Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised or anybody in the queue for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Buzek, there are no hands raised. And in anticipation of your subsequent
question, no emailed comments were submitted in advance as public comment for this meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. With no comments virtually or no written comments, we are going to close the public
comment period at this time. Next is external entities reports. I believe there's one external entity report
on the agenda. That is the external auditor, pre-audit communications. I'd like to ask Doug MacLeod,
Chief Financial Officer, to introduce this item and our guest from Plante Moran.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Buzek, and thank you to the entire committee, especially our
external members, Mr. Olenberger and Mr. Brendel for volunteering your time. Very much appreciated,
and welcome to a new year. I'd like to introduce Pam Hill, who is a partner with Plante Moran, RTD's
external auditor, as well as, I believe, Pam, you have Amy Tytar, a Audit Manager with Plante Moran.
Really want to thank them in advance. They've done a superb job for RTD over the past almost five years
now, so I want to thank them in advance of their presentation. But they do have some required
communications for the committee. Pam, the floor is yours.
PAM HILL: All right. Thank you so much. Thanks for having us here today. We're excited to talk about our
plan for the audit. I know we've had a few conversations with several of you over the last couple of
months, but we will actually begin our audit work here soon. I'm going to have Amy share her screen so
she can see the presentation, which I believe was in your packet as well, maybe just for simplicity sake so
we're all on the same page.
All right, so, Amy, you can skip to the next slide. This is just a quick agenda of what we plan to cover
today. So actually, if you want to maybe go to the next one. All right. This is our engagement team for
RTD's audit once again this year. Those of you that have been on the committee will recognize that we've
actually been very lucky to have a very consistent team over our tenure as the external auditors.

And especially me, Amy, and Chris, we've all been on RTD's audit since we became your auditors. As
Doug mentioned, this is our fifth year with you all. And actually, Hunter, who will be the senior this year,
he's been on it since he started with the firm as well. So I believe this is his fourth year on it.
And all of your team members are specialists from Plante Moran's National Transit team. And all of us do
work with a significant amount of transit clients across the country. So bringing nothing but the best
experts for you all here at RTD. All right, next slide.
So we thought maybe we could just briefly touch a little bit. We know that Matt and the internal audit folks
are on this call, but we thought maybe we could just spend just a brief second focusing on what the main
differences between the external audit that we're doing and then what you hear from Matt on a quarterly
basis and what they do, from an internal audit perspective.
So just a quick refresher. The internal audit, they're really focusing on, obviously, the internal operations,
contracts of the district, et cetera. Whereas the external audit is really focusing mainly on the financial
statements. And you'll see as we go down that list of what's included in our scope, but the majority of our
testing relates to your financial statements and then the compliance with your federal spending as well.
So we don't specifically test operations, but we are testing the numbers that comprise the financial
statements, as well as the internal controls related to how those numbers kind of came to be. We are also
testing internal controls over compliance with your federal grants. And we are expressing an opinion on
those internal controls.
So I would also like to bring up, though, if we do note any best practices related to operational items, or
just things that we think we're seeing at other clients or just within the industry, we do always make those
recommendations to management throughout the year and at the end of the audit. So we will continue to
do that as just kind of a best practice thing.
The other thing, obviously, both the external and the internal auditors, we do both report up to the Audit
Committee and then, ultimately, the Board. So we are hired by you. We are directly reporting to you, as
the Audit Committee. So that's just a broad view. If anyone has questions, too, as we're going through,
definitely feel free to stop us.
But the scope of the Audit, we actually do spend over 1,000 hours every year performing the audit. As
you know, your numbers are very large, so it's not it's not a small scope, that's for sure. But we do
perform the financial statement audit, as I mentioned, auditing compliance with federal dollars.
We do perform work that the Board has asked us to do related to the compensation of the General
Manager, as well as a required report that the FTA requires for the National Transit Database report that
RTD submits to the FTA. And then a separate salary trust audit is performed by a separate Plante Moran
engagement team. And as you'll recall, that fiduciary fund does roll up into RTD's financial statements.
OK, next slide. So just to talk a little bit about the preliminary timeline. One thing we don't have on here is
actually-- and probably Doug and Byron can attest to this, we really never stop auditing or
communicating, I should say. So once the year-end work is done-- so when we finished your audit last
year in May, we've been in constant communication with RTD's team throughout the year.
And I really think that, that communication helps to make the Audit effective and efficient, because we've
been able to get into some kind of unusual things that have happened at RTD throughout the year, kind of

both come to an agreement on how those transactions should be recorded. And that really does help to
make year-end field work and timing go as smoothly as possible.
We did perform some interim procedures in December. So we spent some time doing some federal
compliance testing, looking at internal controls, and some planning items as well. And we are really
through our risk assessment phase, at this point, and are ready and raring to go on the audit a week from
Monday.
So we will be out in RTD's offices starting on Monday for two weeks, and then we perform about a week
or two of testing remotely and wrapping up with RTD's team, as they prepare the financial statements and
have them for us to our review, usually about the last week in March. So we review those, give comments
back, and go through the final processes in April.
Usually we're aiming to issue in May. I know those of you that have been on the committee are familiar.
We've had some delays in the past with the salary trust financial statements, as sometimes the
information that is needed from a third party to complete that has been a bit delayed. And so continuing to
work with RTD's team and the Board of Salary Trust to try to be as proactive as possible to push those
along.
And so further communications will come on that as we work through that, if it does affect timing. But I
believe we've always presented at the July Audit Committee meeting. So usually, we've always been
done way before then. We'd like to be done earlier, but a lot of that just kind of depends on some of these
third-party factors.
All right. And then next up, I'm going to turn it over to Amy. And she's going to talk a little bit about some
of the required communications and the rest of our plan. Amy?
ANY TYTAR: Thank you, Pam. So as Pam said, I'll be going over our required communication to you all,
as a member of the Finance Committee. This is kind of in summary of a letter that will eventually be
distributed. So this will all come in to you via that letter as well.
Essentially, we went over the scope of the audit. But just to revisit what our responsibility is, that would be
to express an opinion about whether the financial statements are fairly presented in all material respects,
in conformity with US generally accepted accounting principles. So our audit of the financial statements
does not relieve you or management of your responsibilities.
There is a new accounting standard this year, GASB 101, which is focused on compensated absences
and how that is calculated and recognized in the financial statements. We've been working with
management to implement this standard. Just as a side note, as a result of adopting the standard, you
may see an emphasis of matter paragraph within our auditor report. But that would just say we adopted
GASB 101, and our opinion is not modified with respect to that matter.
Moving into our audit plan. First, in order to plan an effective audit, we really must identify the significant
risks of misstatement in the financial statements, as related to RTD. So during our brainstorming session
on risk, we really came up with three main risks to address.
The first being management override of controls. This is a standard risk you may have seen, and you will
continue to see year over year. To address this particular risk, we will test journal entries recorded in the
general ledger and other adjustments made in preparation of the financial statements.

The second risk here is a proper recording of revenue. So at RTD, a large portion of revenue comes from
federal grants. Given this, there is also a risk in the accuracy and completeness of the Schedule of
Expenditures of Federal Awards, or you may hear the term SEFA for that. To address this risk, we will
first review for any significant fluctuations to revenue.
We will assess if grant funding was spent in accordance with related agreements, and that transactions
are recorded correctly in the general ledger. And then we'll also test the completeness of the SEFA, which
is done in conjunction with the single audit of federal awards, and reconcile that the federal grant
expenditures on the SEFA do agree to the federal revenue recorded in the financial statements.
Lastly here, we have the risk related to management's process for developing accounting estimates as it
relates to the net pension liability. So the net pension liability at RTD would be considered a significant
estimate. To address this, we will review and obtain support for the inputs, methods, and assumptions
used by management, which they typically hire an actuary in arriving at the estimate related to this
liability.
We'll move away from those immediate risks here, and just give some more overall information on our
audit plan. So Pam did kind of touch on this briefly. But as related to the financial statement audit, we'll
gain an understanding of accounting processes and internal controls. And then we'll confirm our
understanding of those items through observation and inspection procedures.
For the financial statement audit, specifically, we will not an express an opinion on the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting. But although we're not expressing an opinion on it, we still will
communicate to you any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we may identify in
connection with our audit.
And then lastly, the last bullet here is just talking about how materiality is inherent in our work. You may
be thinking, what does this mean? That means we will place greater emphasis on items that have, on a
relative basis, more importance to the financial statements and greater possibilities of material error than
those with less importance and maybe not so much of a possibility of a material error that might be
remote for those items.
And then just to close out this presentation, an aspect that is important in this communication process is
the opportunity for us to obtain information from you all that you may find and that would be relevant to
our audit. So there is a list here about what your views may be on. I won't take the time to read it out loud,
but you all can see my screen. Please reach out if you have anything to communicate to us on these
matters.
On the next slide here-- I believe our last one-- is our contact information, both me and Pam, as well as
the Senior Manager on the engagement, Chris. That's all we had prepared.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. That concludes your presentation, I presume, so, Pam and Amy, thank you so
much for the presentation. We'll take comments or questions now from committee members. And I see
Jim's hand raised. Jim, you have the floor.
JIM BRENDEL: Yes, thank you. I just wondered-- you mentioned the GASB 101 adoption-- if there was
an estimate of what the impact might be, or is it just too early to know yet?
PAM HILL: So I'll speak first and then, Amy, you feel free to jump in, as I know you've been in the details
with management and staff. We don't anticipate there being a material impact at all. My guess is, if

anything, it'll be less than a few million dollars, if that. But I know they are still working through that
calculation.
But again, I don't expect it to be a significant adjustment, as you already are recording a liability related to
this accrual. It's just kind of tweaking what you have to consider and what gets included and how it gets
estimated. So it's not like you're adding something brand new onto your balance sheet.
JIM BRENDEL: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. John, you're up.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. I had a question about the agreed upon procedures for the GM
compensation. We may have come on as an Audit Committee-- or maybe I just don't remember this from
last year or maybe you only do it X number of years, but could you talk a little bit about what those
procedures are and the reason behind them?
PAM HILL: So I can talk about the procedures, and then maybe Doug, if you'd like to talk a little bit about
the reason behind those? So they're actually very pretty straightforward procedures. So it's set up as an
agreed upon procedures report. And in essence, at a very high level, what we're doing is taking Ms.
Johnson's contract and agreeing that to what she got paid for the year.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Pam. And this is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. The reason-great question. The reason that we do this procedure, these agreed upon procedures on the General
Manager contract, we've done it yearly since, I believe, 2008 approximately. I'm not sure about that year,
but it preceded about three or four General Manager's ago, there was a state audit that occurred, and the
state auditor's recommendation was that the external auditor perform an evaluation to ensure that the
contract matched up with the compensation.
I believe that's fairly standard in many agencies throughout the state, just to ensure that the
compensation, there's nothing that's being paid or it's something of value going to the General Manager
or the leader of the organization that's not within the contract confines.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. And does that answer your questions?
JOHN OLENBERGER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, good. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Any other questions or comments from committee
members? Great. Seeing none, thank you again for the presentation, and we'll move on next to our
recommended actions. We've got one recommended action on the agenda this afternoon, and that is the
external auditor Scope of Work Summary Approval and Contracting Authorization.
I'm looking for a motion for the Board of Directors to approve the summary scope of work for a solicitation,
and to subsequently authorize the General Manager and CEO to enter into a contract for external audit
services for an amount not to exceed $930,000 over five years. Is there a motion?
JIM BRENDEL: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.

VINCE BUZEK: I heard committee member Brendel and then Director Catlin. OK, let me write this down. I
would now ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to present this item. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Buzek. As Chair Buzek had mentioned, this is seeking Committee
approval, followed by Board approval on February 25 to go ahead and issue a request for proposals for
audit services. As we mentioned in the previous item, this is the fifth and final year of the contract with
Plante Moran. That contract was a three-year contract with two option years. Both of those option years
have been exercised.
The current contract will expire on September 30, so RTD staff will seek to issue a competitive request for
proposals. The request will be based on best value, with higher weighting on firm and staff qualifications
and lower weighting on cost itself, but best overall value would be the criteria to evaluate the proposals
received. I believe we received approximately five or six proposals last go round, so we would expect a
good competitive proposal process again this time.
So along with that, we're also asking for approval of the scope of work, which has been included in the
packet. That scope of work follows almost verbatim the items that Plante Moran just went through. So no
significant changes, no changes, actually, at all to the scope of work from the current scope that the
Plante Moran team is contracted under.
So with that, Mr. Chair, I'd be happy to answer any questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. And you answered my question. So at this time, I'll ask
any other Committee Members and other Directors who have questions to raise your virtual hands. And
for those calling in that wish to speak, press star 9. And I see Committee Member Brandel. Go ahead,
Jim.
JIM BRENDEL: Thank you. So I just wondered-- and maybe I missed it or it's too early to ask, but what is
the timeline for issuing the RFP and then what's the methodology? Do you select firms? Or is it a blanket
RFP that any firm can respond to? Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Is this on? Thank you. Thank you for the question, Mr Brendel. Yes, it's very similar to
most of our professional personal services procurements here at RTD. So we would issue a Request For
Proposals, which would include a scope of work and the terms and conditions related to the contract
itself. That typically takes about 30 days. We're ready to go once the full Board hopefully-- if this
Committee passes it and the full Board approves it, we would issue it at the beginning of March.
I believe we'd have it out there for approximately 30 days. Typically, what we do is we have a list of most
of the audit firms that we would send it out to, ensure that they saw it. Also, within our procurement
process, we have the ability for audit firms or any firm to sign up to get notices when new procurements
come out. So it's a pretty robust process, where we feel we have a pretty wide reach.
From there, there's a time period that allows the requesters to propose. Typically, probably two months
for the whole proposal process. Those proposals are evaluated, if they're deemed to be responsive to the
actual request through our contracts and procurement process. If they're responsive and they provided
the correct documents and signed off on certain information that we require in our contracting process,
there's usually a small team put together and it will be financial people on our end.
Our Senior Manager of Accounting, probably myself, CFO, and a couple other people that might be
involved in those aspects that have that background would evaluate the proposals. And prior to that,

there's an established criteria. So as I mentioned, it's usually firm qualifications, staff qualifications, and
then cost. The cost bid remains sealed. So the evaluation team does not see that.
And the proposals are evaluated based on the criteria established for the staff qualifications and the firm
qualifications. Once those scores are compiled, the cost estimation from contracts and procurement is
added into that equation, and then each section is weighted according to the weighting. I believe last time
we weighted at 40%, 40%, and then 20% for cost. So it's weighted in that fashion.
Then the best score is-- the scores are discussed and then a determination is made if that is the firm to
move forward with, the top scoring firm. And then we go from there into the contractual process. So that's
kind of it, in a nutshell.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. I see Director Catlin's hand up. Director Catlin,
you've got the floor.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Buzek. Doug, I understand that you will be leaving us, unfortunately,
but for a well-deserved retirement. That being said, do you know yet who the proposal manager will be for
this procurement effort? And from your team? I didn't know if he would still be involved and then hand it
off midway through, or if you would hand over the reins initially.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for the question. Yes, Director Catlin, my intent would be-- so my last day
would be March 28 under current plans. So I probably won't be here for the final evaluation. However, we
do have a very capable accounting team. In fact, we've got three CPAs within the Finance Team who are
very adept and they've worked on these audits many, many years.
Our lead on that-- or who I would want to be the Project Manager is Byron Aten, who is our Senior
Manager of Accounting. He's a CPA with many years of experience. In fact, he leads the RTD side of the
audits for all of these audits. Very qualified, very experienced, and very knowledgeable, so I don't have
any concerns about selecting a good firm, even if I'm not here. But thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, thank you. And I just-- you've just been the face of this effort for so many
years that I just didn't know who might be at the helm when you left, but-DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'd like to take this time to wish you well in your retirement, since I don't believe we have
another Audit Committee meeting until after you leave. I'm not sure, but-DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Director Catlin, much appreciated.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for everything.
VINCE BUZEK: I think we all concur with that sentiment. OK, any other further discussion on this matter?
Seeing none, we'll proceed to the vote. Are there any no votes on this item? Seeing none, with four yes
votes, one absence, no abstentions, this motion passes. Very good.
Next, we're going to move on to discussion items. And, Mr. MacLeod, don't go anywhere yet. So the first
item up is the proposed 2025-2026 internal audit plan. I would like to ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial
Officer and Matt Moreno, Chief Audit Executive, from RubinBrown to present this item. You have the floor,
gentlemen. Thank you.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. I'll just quickly introduce Matt. Matt Moreno is the Chief Audit Executive,
as mentioned by Chair Buzek. And also joining us is Dave Hronek, who you all know, who is an Audit
Manager. And again, this team does fantastic work. A lot going on all the time. So, Matt, please present
when ready.
MATT MORENO: Thank you so much, Doug. Committee Member Catlin, Doug does not get off that easy.
He does get to do one more Audit Committee meeting before he officially retires. So I know everybody
will be excited about that. Thank you for giving me the time to chat with you all this morning regarding a
couple matters.
The first matter is the proposed 25-26 internal audit plan. I also want to point out that the Plante Moran
team did complete some inquiries with me as the Chief Audit Executive, regarding any concerns I might
have with regard to financial reporting. And I responded to them and provided them a listing of all the
internal audits that were performed. And then if they want to ask for detail on those, we will provide those,
if they so choose. So I did want to point that out.
So as you might remember, for those of you that have been on the Committee for a couple of years, this
Committee is charged with approving the-- or at least approving the internal audit plan to bring it to the full
Board. So we have been very busy updating our internal audit plan. So I'm going to go through it and walk
through it. And if there's anything you'd like me to dive into more detail, I'm more than happy to.
So this audit plan will cover the 25-26 year. It basically goes through mid-year '26. So we have done
several different things to put together this audit plan. We've done inquiry with key management. We've
taken into consideration the findings of the previous audits we've performed. We've also looked at
findings from other audits, whether it's been from DOT, FTA, you name it.
We, as an organization, get audited rather regularly, so we've proposed several different audits. You'll see
on the slide here-- I'm hoping you're all seeing the slides. I'm not seeing anybody screaming that they're
not seeing the slides. So the project audit-- the audit project title, a scope description, a business area,
the rationale why it was selected, how it aligns with our strategic priority, and a planned timing and a
approximate budget to complete the audit.
So I'll walk through those at a high level. There could be some movement in when these actually occur,
based on what might be happening with any one department throughout the year. So if you might
remember from the prior audit plan, we've slid things around within the audit plan in order to be as least
disruptive to the organization as possible.
So the first one has to do with human resources recruiting and hiring process review. So this should be
occurring pretty much now. And so that's really been a key thing. We, as an organization, are really
investing in people. And part of investing in people is hiring them. And so that's why that was selected. It
was also identified in the Colorado State audit report. So we're looking to address some of the concerns
that other auditors have brought up.
OK. The next one has to do with monitoring the rail operations corrective action plans. So this was
brought up during our internal audit risk assessment. We will also be conducting that very shortly.
Obviously, we have different corrective actions that we need to implement throughout the year, and so
we're just going to monitor how well we are tracking that, how we're closing it out, and how we're
interacting with the monitoring agencies with regard to that.

The next one has to do with capital asset management. So we have a good bit of assets that we're
responsible for managing. So this also was selected as a result of the internal audit risk assessment. This
will be a relatively substantial audit, just due to the magnitude of the amount of capital assets we have. So
we're estimating this will be a 300-hour lift and should occur around March of 2025.
We also would like to refresh our enterprise risk assessment. So that we would do in spring of 2025.
Won't be quite as heavy lift as the capital asset, but it also is very important to do our risk assessment
and regularly assess that to make sure that we're mitigating the risk, to the extent we can.
The next one is P cards. So this was a strategy that not only management has, but we're going to go
alongside them and help monitor that so that the P card program can be modified as needed, if
modifications are needed. So that will occur in May of 2025. And we're estimating that will take
approximately 175 hours.
Come on. OK. The next one is the Board of Directors expense reimbursement. So there is a policy
whereby a Board of Directors can get reimbursed for expenses that are incurred. And we're just going to
measure how we're adhering to our own policy. And so that is going to occur in June of 2025. And we're
estimating that would take about 100 hours.
Next one is the parts inventory. And so that one is we have a lot of various parts for our different things
that we have to do maintenance on. And so this was also brought up as part of the internal audit risk
assessment. Obviously, it covers multiple business areas and it does have an impact on financial
success. And that would be about as-- not quite in magnitude as the capital assets, but still pretty large in
magnitude, as far as audits go.
And then chart of accounts, we're going to look at the chart of accounts and the procedures for adding,
deleting, and modifying accounts. This is especially important as we move towards a new ERP at some
point in the future. We want to understand how that all occurs, so that when we do get there, we have all
of our policies and procedures buttoned up and aligns with where we needed to go, as an organization,
as far as clear and seamless financial reporting.
I've been talking for a little bit, so I want to stop and make sure there's no questions. I haven't seen any
hands firing up, but I know I've covered several topics pretty quickly.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Does that conclude your presentation?
MATT MORENO: No, I have more, but I don't want to go all the way to the end and then we-- there's just
a good amount here, so I figured it was to good break.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. Sure, sure. All right, so I see Committee Member Olenberger's hand raise. Mr.
Olenberger, go right ahead.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Well, as long as you're asking for questions as you go, I was just wondering, with
the Board of Directors expense reimbursements, what are we talking about there, in terms of an annual
spend on Board member reimbursements? And what type of items would be included in that?
MATT MORENO: It would be-- sometimes there's flights and other things going to conferences and so on.
There's adherence to when it should be turned in and whether it's within compliance with the policy of so
many weeks after when the expense occurs in order to-- it's not only probably quantitatively not crazy
material, but it is one of those things that if there were something, it qualitatively gets the headlines.

And so we want to make sure we understand our risk there and address that accordingly.
JOHN OLENBERGER: And do you have an idea of what the annual spend would be?
MATT MORENO: I would not be able to speak offhand on that, now.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. Or perhaps management?
VINCE BUZEK: I see our Board Office Executive Manager, Jack Kroll, with his hand raised. I think he
might have that answer. Director Catlin, is it OK if I go to Mr. Kroll first?
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure. I was just going to say that each Director has a budget, and Mr. Kroll can speak
to that, but-VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, thanks for the question. Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. Not every
Director expends the full amount of their funds, but each Director, per the Board's expense and
reimbursement policy that the Board sets and was last updated in November of 2023, each Director is
allocated $4,000 for local expenses necessary for the conducting of RTD business within the district.
And then, because continuing education is a priority for the Board and continuing to develop each Board
members' awareness of issues facing transit agencies, each Director is also allocated $6,000 for travel
expenses to attend conferences that have to be approved in advance by the Chair of the Board.
And then a recent change we made in November of '23 was to specifically state the amount of conference
registration fee support each Director would receive. That is roughly $1,800. And then the last bucket
here is the monthly IT expenses.
So Directors are eligible for reimbursement of up to $140 per month for monthly IT expenses related to
cell phone, internet, et cetera, so that they can conduct the duties of their Director offices.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Any other questions or comments at this time? I had a
quick question, Matt, if I could? Under the column marked plan, timing, and hours, is the date-- the June,
July, September-- is that the date that these processes will begin, or will they be concluded within that
time frame?
MATT MORENO: That-- great question, Committee Member Buzek. It is when they are going to begin. So
they will hope to report as quickly as thereafter, but that is when they are slated to be audited, basically.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. Very good. And I don't see any other questions or comments, so you may
continue. Thanks.
MATT MORENO: Thank you. OK, the next one is we're going to look at federal, state, and local
regulations oversight. So we have just a few regulations that we have to comply with, as an organization.
So we're going to make sure that we monitor that. So this will be a fairly substantial one, just due to the
nature of regulations and the number of regulatory bodies that we have to comply with. So that'll be about
250 hours and we're planning to do that in fall of '25.

The next one has to do with transit police. So we'd be looking at the police manual, ensure it has
developed emergency operations plan and so on. This came out of the internal risk assessment. We're
hoping to do that in fall of '25, in hand with the police department to make sure that we're following all best
practices and just as a regular monitoring function.
Next one is infrastructure, facilities preventative maintenance. So I know the organization is really moving
out of the-- or we've moved out of the construction phase and we're more in the maintenance phase, as
an organization. And so really, I know most departments are working towards becoming very proactive.
And so we're going to make sure that we monitor how they might be doing that. And so this would be
happening late 2025.
And so this would, obviously, hit a Committee value, customer excellence and so on. So it's very
important that we have a well-maintained system so that we can stay safe, on time, and deliver excellent
service. The next one is we do contract for information technology support with several organizations
outside of the district. So we're going to review how that process works and just make sure it's working to
the best of its abilities to service the organization highly.
So we would be doing that very early on-- I just noticed a typo, January of 2026, so apologize on that.
Staff scheduling and extra shift. So this is looking at how we are utilizing, basically, extra shift or overtime.
And is it outside of the norms in any one area of operations?
And are we-- and obviously, there are areas where we're aware that it is necessary and so on, but we
want to make sure that we are monitoring that and communicating to the appropriate parties that we don't
overwork our team, but we also monitor the fiscal impact that might have. And so that came out of the
internal audit risk assessment. And we would look to do that in March of 2026. And that would be in
approximately 200 hours.
And then service scheduling, always a hot topic to look at. And so we would be looking at that in May of
2026. And then just a few more here. Yes, I see a couple hands flew up, so I'll stop. So-VINCE BUZEK: Great. Let's take some of the questions. Director Catlin, you're on.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, the service scheduling has been a hot topic in our Operations, Safety and
Security Committee, right, Director Buzek? And I think there is a greater sense of urgency in looking at
that prior to the March 2026 timeline.
MATT MORENO: Thank you for the feedback. We will-PEGGY CATLIN: I see GM/CEO Johnson has her hand raised. I just wanted to point that out that, when
presenting this audit plan to the full Board, you have seven new Directors who may have a different
opinion about what should happen. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: GM/CEO Johnson, would you like to speak, please?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, thank you. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. I was just going to
expound on that a little bit, but Director Catlin mentioned the dialogue around it. This is slightly different,
but there is a nexus. And so quite naturally, we could lean in and speak with our Audit Executive to
discern whether or not this would be moved up, because there's other extenuating factors relative to the
CBA and things of the like, considering where we are in the process.

So I would caution us, relative to where we are with that as well. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. Committee Member Olenberger, go right ahead.
JOHN OLENBERGER: I actually had the same comment as Director Catlin, so I echo her comment on
this as well. This is something that I noticed that I feel like-- not that any of these are not important, but I
feel like this one, the service scheduling really encompasses all of what our-- not all of what RTD does,
but I think it's the thing that is the most rider-facing audit that we have on here, and probably potentially
the most cost, in terms of how often, what's the frequency, how do we balance service to the riders with
the cost and frequency and all that.
So I just-- for those reasons, it seems to me, if I were to put this somewhere on the chart, I think I would
put it above the Board of Directors expense reimbursements, in terms of when this falls in the audit
priority, which would-- so I don't know if that's something that we should talk about as an Audit Committee
or how that would work if we have some feelings on when things should be placed, or if there's a good
reason why this should be where it currently is.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Yeah, no, good comments. And it seems like, if it's possible, the committee would
like to have the service scheduling matter moved up. And so I would ask GM/CEO Johnson and
RubinBrown to work together in some fashion to determine whether that can happen. I understand there
may be elements of this that require it to be where it is, but if not, I think it seems everybody would like to
have this moved up a little more, given a little more priority, if possible. Thanks so much.
MATT MORENO: I appreciate the feedback, and we will work with management to move it up as
practically possible to meet the needs of not only this committee, but the greater Board and the greater
public as well. So hearing that, we appreciate the feedback and we will star that one as a high priority and
get it put in as soon as we can get management scheduled and so on.
That's why we bring it to you all, because everybody has their things that are important and we evaluate
the opinion of the committee. So thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, thanks for that. And does that conclude your presentation or is there more?
MATT MORENO: No there's more. [LAUGHS]
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, gosh, you're killing me. No, I'm kidding.
MATT MORENO: There's not as much here, so this will be a lot quicker. So some of this is following up
on stuff, as well as more of smaller scope, but things that are important. So employee training program
review. So follow up on the progress toward the remediation of the management action plans.
So basically, it's a follow up audit of an audit we already did. So it would be smaller in scope, only 80
hours. Probably not as important to do in the near term. Also, we're going to follow up on the ITGC with
regard to Oracle. Obviously, if Oracle is replaced before then or so on, we would move this around. But
we need to follow up on that regularly and re-audit that as well.
ERP project participation. So we are well aware that the organization is in the midst of evaluating
Enterprise Resource Planning or basically your accounting software, more or less. So we would make
sure we are aware of how that process and monitor anything that might need to be monitored or report
out to that team, to the extent anything that needs to.

Follow up on corrective action plans. We're going to do that quarterly, as we've been doing. And then
project planning administration, there's a little bit of a budget eat up there to just do the planning and
administration of the Internal Audit Plan. And then we left some time to do any ad hoc audits that might
come up throughout the year.
So behind this is just kind of a breakdown of our overall planned budget. It should all reconcile. But we
may adjust, if scope needs to be increased in areas and decreased in other areas, as well as meeting the
needs of as far as pushing things up, it might shift it from one year to another and so on. But this is the
overall plan.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno. Are there any other questions or comments
from members? Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Just on the subject of the Ad Hoc Audit, in speaking with some of the new Directors, I
know that there have been some issues that have surfaced that may well fall under that category. And I
am aware of one, but I wanted to speak with GM/CEO Johnson before I surfaced it at this committee. But
I think it would really fall under that Ad Hoc Audit category, so I'm not too concerned about it.
So the plan as it is with that final piece, I think, is good. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that comment. Any other comments or questions? Committee Member
Olenberger?
JOHN OLENBERGER: So I meant to bring this up earlier, but just before we move on to the new section
of the next section of the audit update, I did have a comment on packet page 15, regarding the
requirement for single audit.
So around in the middle of there, we say that single audits are required for recipients of federal funds in
excess of $500,000. That's actually been $750,000 for a while. And then as of October 1, 2024, that
number is now $1 million. So I don't know if we should update that action.
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. MacLeod, go ahead.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you for catching that. Yes, that was our mistake. If OK with the
committee, we would update this Board report before it goes to the full Board for approval. And we will
insert the $1 million figure. So thank you, Mr. Olenberger, for pointing that out.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Any objections from committee members of updating this prior to going to the full
Board? Seeing none. Good. Thank you very much. And thanks, Mr. Olenberger, for catching that. And
any other questions, comments? OK. Seeing none, we're going to go on to our second discussion item,
the internal audit update.
And once again, I'll call on Doug MacLeod and Matt Moreno to present on this item. Thanks.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. I'll just turn the floor over to Matt Moreno, if that's OK.
MATT MORENO: Perfect. Thank you so much. So this slide deck will look fairly familiar to you all. One
enhancement we are looking to do, which I did not. Was not able to get all of the elements into it, but I

have alluded to it a little bit, is kind of the audit universe of all the different monitoring that we get to have
going on.
So one thing I am planning to add for the March meeting is a slide at the end that will kind of make you
aware of any of the reports we might have received from other organizations, just so that we have kind of
a central depository for all reporting that we might, just so that we, as those responsible for helping
monitor processes, financial reporting, and so on at the organization, are aware of all the different things.
So I did want to point that out.
As far as the audit activity, we've been busy. We're hoping the March meeting will be jam packed with
reports, we're anticipating. So the first one we're going to be bringing to you is IT vulnerability
assessment, using the new NIST 2.0 framework. So we had additionally contemplated doing just the prior
NIST framework, but the management team was proactive and asked us to consider monitoring them
against the NIST 2.0 framework, even though it wasn't fully required at the time.
So we did do that, and we will report to the Committee once we finish redacting any sensitive information
that would need to be redacted to not expose the organization to additional risk. The next one is the
financial performance metrics review. So that was conducted. And we're really just working on finalizing
the draft with management. Finalize any management action plans, and we'll get that out here shortly.
RT Operations Service Development. Field work is currently in progress, with activities proceeding as
planned. We have been looking at the internal audit function charter, and we are going to bring some
recommended updates to that. Looking at the changes in the IIA standards, AICPA and so on, to make
sure that we're keeping the best standards in our function charter.
And then we've brought the audit plan to you just as the prior item. And then as far as we're going, we're
going to-- like I said, the March meeting will be relatively beefy. So hopefully, you all are ready for that.
But it will be good. For the most part, things were proceeding as planned. The IT vulnerability was slight
delays, but mostly due to the sensitive nature of it and the fact that it was fairly substantial in breadth of
what was looked at.
So you're very familiar with this slide, as well. So the green are the complete things. The blue are the
things that are in process. And then the yellow is stuff that is in planning phases. So there were several
items that were either moved back in the prior audit plan, due to timing with management or just
constraints at the organization.
So those were re-presented on the 25-26 audit plan. And so that's kind of where we're at with regard to
that, as well as following up on our various management action plans. So we regularly monitor the
management action plans. So as a reminder, we have the project, the observation number, what the
observation title was, whether it's been completed, and the risk rating.
And so the areas where you might see a date struck through, that's where a new target date was
established, based on a consult with the responsible party, due to either just changes in staffing or so on
that required that date be pushed out into the future. And so we will put that in the reminder to follow up
with them on the delineated date there.
So for the most part, things are getting closed out relatively on time. You do notice several things where
there was a star, so we were still waiting on updates from the responsible parties with regard to all the

items with star. So I'm hoping when we come back in March, we can close out most of those starred
items or have updated target dates for you so that we can report back to you.
And go over there, and that really concludes what I need to go over, but I see I have a hand up.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, Mr. Moreno. And Committee Member Olenberger, you've got the floor.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. Thank you for the presentation. As far as the target dates go, if we go
to packet page 39, say, or 38-39, all around there.
MATT MORENO: Yep.
JOHN OLENBERGER: A couple of questions on those. So I get a little bit concerned when I see things
that are bumped out like a year or so. And where is a good one? Especially, so I guess I don't know when
the audit originally occurred. And I've just seen this in my own practice as well, as sometimes we'll, say
we wrap up an audit in January 31.
And they say, OK, we'll have this completed by January 31 of the next year. And then you come back in
February and March. You follow up on it. And they say, well, yeah, we weren't able to get to that. We'll do
it January 31 of the following year. And when things get pushed out a full year, that gives me a little bit of
concern as to, is this actually going to get done, and why does it need to be pushed out so far?
Is it that they didn't give themselves enough time initially to get it done, and they underestimated how long
it would take and other obligations? Or is this, let's just keep pushing it down the road and see what goes
on with that? So that's kind of my first question on this. And I guess I'll pause for that.
MATT MORENO: Perfect. I'll start and then I'll probably defer to GM Johnson to fill in. But I do want to
assure the Committee that when the original target date was established, there was great care making
sure that they were achievable, at the time. And so there was-- so it wasn't taken lightly that that should
be an achievable date.
But there were, depending on the matter, either leadership changes or constraints that led to the need to
push some of them out. And so if there's a specific one of note, maybe we can discuss it and bring it back
to you and give you a specific. But I do want to assure you, that's probably the biggest part of getting the
management action plans drafted is agreeing on a achievable target date.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. I think I just want a general awareness of this and make sure that it's not
something where all of our recommendations are being pushed out for completion, and that things are
getting done, and getting done in a time frame commensurate with the level of risk for each item.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. GM/CEO Johnson, you have the floor.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Buzek. And thank you, Committee
Member Olenberger for your question, and to our Chief Audit Executive Moreno, for addressing the
questions. Just to provide some context, this was discussed at our last meeting of 2025, where we talked
about certain areas we have been audited by other entities.
So take, for instance, safety. Relative to some of these things that we're addressing when we talk about
the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, just in the spring, there was a modification to the rule that
came out via the federal government that was passed through our state safety oversight agency, in which

we needed to comply with, for instance. And so while we have individuals that are capable, we put the
priority relative to what those audit findings were, because there's a direct impact to our eligibility to
receive federal funding and things of the like.
And then when we talk about Oracle, for instance, as we undergo an assessment of a new ERP as well,
we're trying to look at policies and procedures to develop for our system that's going to be, basically,
phased out. Not to say it's not important, but as we're balancing these things, to the point that Mr. Moreno
raised. So I just wanted to assure you that we are committed to doing these, but as we are trying to juggle
the multiple audits we had, including the state of Colorado's audit as well, it was a balancing act. So thank
you so much for the question.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. Committee Member Olenberger, does that answer your
question?
JOHN OLENBERGER: Yes, it does. And I think kind part B with that was just with all these ones with the
asterisks on them that were to be completed by December 24. Here we are mid-February, and we're
waiting on updates on a good number of them. I wouldn't necessarily follow up on January 1 for
something that was due in on December 31. So maybe you guys followed up just a couple weeks ago in
February and you're still waiting, or is this something where you did follow up the first week of January
and you still haven't gotten stuff?
I guess I would say, is it reasonable that you're still waiting for stuff that had completion dates of more,
probably more so the December ones? I see those January 31, that was pretty recently. December 31
was about a month and a half ago.
MATT MORENO: Some of them probably-- this slide is somewhat outdated, just due to the nature of
getting it in the packet, and the packet limitations. So there will be some that I'm expecting we'll have
closed out. But there are others we're still waiting for updates on. So I will-- when we discuss in March,
especially if some of those continue to be on there, there'll be a higher priority and a bigger discussion
item, if we feel like they need to be.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. Yeah. Fair enough.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you. And, Mr. Moreno, I'm sure you'll stay on top of all that, as you always
do. So any other questions or comments on the internal audit update? OK, seeing none, we'll move on to
other matters. Are there any other matters to discuss?
We've already said goodbye to Doug MacLeod, but he'll be back in March. So-MATT MORENO: I guess a point of clarification, do we need to approve for the Committee to take the
audit plan to the board?
VINCE BUZEK: No, this was a discussion item. We haven't-- it's not gone to recommended action at this
time.
MATT MORENO: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: So yeah. OK, so next meeting date, March 13th, 2025, 2:00 PM. My script says that if it's
determined that meeting date is not needed, the next Audit Committee meeting will be held Thursday,

April 10th. Sounds like it's going to be needed, so we'll see you all March 13th, 2025 at 2:00 PM, and then
again April 10th.
So seeing nothing more to come before the committee, this meeting is adjourned. Thank you all. I want to
thank my Vice Chair for your agreeing to be the Vice Chair. I want to thank all the Committee Members
for your participation. I want to thank all of our presenters. I want to thank our GM/CEO, our Chief
Financial Officer, our Board Office Executive Manager, all of the other professional staff that help put this
together.
So there you go. I'm never going to thank you again. We are adjourned. Bye, bye.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you, everyone. Have a great day.
JIM BRENDEL: Thanks

