Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 12,
2012
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

June 12, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
June 12, 2012.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Bagley, Chair Kemp; Directors Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Williams
and Walker

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Anderson, Hoy, and James

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Skip Brown, Frank Buczkowski, Garrett Christnacht,
Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Ed
Gonzales, Cory Granrud, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Nadine Lee,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Pat McLaughlin, Paula Perdue, Carla
Perez, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt
Stringer, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker,
Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Joni Goheen, Jane Donovan, Julie Skeen, George Gerstle, Claudia
Folska, Jennifer Brandeberry – Brandeberry-McKenna, Bill Mosher,
Jacob Riger - DRCOG, Debra Wilcox,
****
Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 7:52 p.m.

Call to Order:
I.

Recommended Action
 Authorization to approve Agreement for the Design, Construction and Special
Needs Maintenance of Southeast Corridor Platform Canopy Enclosures
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to enter into an agreement for design, construction and
special needs (non-routine) maintenance of the Southeast Corridor Platform
Canopy Enclosures at Orchard, Arapahoe, Dry Creek, County Line and Lincoln
LRT Stations with the South I-25 Transportation Management Association (“S. I25 TMA”). FASTER grant funds will be used for the construction portion of the
project. Construction and special needs maintenance will also be funded by

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 12,
2012
Page 2 of 4

locally-matched S. I-25 TMA funds. RTD will not contribute any funds toward
the construction or special needs maintenance of the Project.
Garrett Christnecht gave a brief summary and presentation, pointing out the five
stations that will receive the Canopy Enhancements as Orchard Station,
Arapahoe at Village Center Station, Dry Creek Station, County Line Station, and
Lincoln Station.
Motion:
Director McMullen made the
motion to forward this item to the
full board at the June 26, 2012
Board meeting.
Director Cohen seconded the
motion.
Discussion:

Director O’Boyle commended the
team and staff for an incredible job
they have done with this project.
Director Tobiassen also
commended the staff and shared
that he has the same desires for
the Aurora area. He asked if the
enhancements would cover the
high block for those who are
disabled in wheel chairs. Garrett
Christnecht stated no; however
the entire updates do met the ADA
requirements and those in
wheelchairs would be able to seek
shelter from the weather under
those same canopies. Director
Tobiassen noted that it would be
difficult for the physically
challenged to get from the high
block area to the covered area and
back again to meet the departing
train window.
Director McMullen commented
that the enhancements look great
and commended the staff for their
hard work.
Director Bagley dittoed Director
O’Boyle’s kudos and added he has
been involved with this project and
has followed it all through the

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 12,
2012
Page 3 of 4

process. He is excited to finally
see the outcome of such hard
work.
Vote on
the motion:

The Board voted 12 in favor and 0
against. Directors Anderson, Hoy,
and James were absent.
Committee Chair Bagley declared
the motion PASSED unanimously.

II. Updates
TOD Pilot Program
Bill Sirois gave a brief summarized update and presentation on the TOD Pilot
Program which includes the following projects:
o

Alameda Station – Signed purchase and sale agreement.
The next steps would be to work through the steps necessary for closing on
this project, develop construction phasing, D4 to secure the financing,
Outreach to the community, and define a scope for RTD Parking
Management Study.

o

Olde Town Arvada – RTD/Arvada/AURA are assuming responsibility of
constructing the bus facility and parking. Arvada & AURA are in the process
of purchasing adjacent land for future development.
The next steps will be to determine the nature of land transaction and
generate an RFQ, solidify funding sources from the City and RTD, and
negotiate, design and construction IGA for transit elements.

o

Welton Corridor - Urban Land Institute (URL) completed the design/feasibility
charrette for RTD’s 29th & Welton parcel. Bill Van Meter shared that ULI
Charrette examined a variety of uses including affordable residential,
office/retail residential mix and civic/office/residential.
The next steps for the Welton Corridor are to coordinate with Five Points
Business District as they conduct outreach to other properties along the
Welton Corridor and to also work with Five Points Business District to
determine the best strategy for future catalytic development.

o

Federal Center – RTD signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
w/Lakewood and GSA which identifies planning and development goals for
the site, and identifies a general process for communicating and collaborating
towards achieving those goals.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 12,
2012
Page 4 of 4

The next steps would be to convene regular working group sessions with
Lakewood, GSA, and RTD and to determine RTD’s participation in RFQ for
master developer of GSA property.
Bill Sirois also gave an outline of other TOD activities: Bus Barn, Parking Legislation,
2011 Annual TOD Status Report, and University Station.
Discussion:
Direction Tobiassen shared his gratitude for the update and commended the staff for
their hard work. He asked in regards to the Welton corridor, who is providing the
funding for that project? Bill Sirois responded that a very generous offer was placed
on the table and RTD took on a portion of that offer paying $5,000 (primary funder).
Director Tobiassen also commented that GSA has a lot of property on the Federal
Center project and questions what is in it for them. Bill Sirois responded that GSA is
feeling some pressure to dispose of underutilized assets so they are very actively
pursuing this project. Lakewood is very concerned about how that property develops
so they are looking to purchase that property.
Director O’Boyle questioned what the modification entails by legislative to charge
for parking? Bill Sirois responded that one of the issues with our legislation is the
special rules that we have to follow. When we get into a situation where we are
looking at some sort of joint facility, we only have so many spaces then we have to
operate under a specific set of rules. We could look at charging for parking which
could be a source of revenue to help fund the development but it would beneficial to
RTD to be able to manage our own parking like we think we need to manage it
rather than have superficial oversight.
Director Bagley shared on behalf of Director James that in his absence, he is very
interested in this TOD project and is happy to see the progress.
III. Other Matters
Director Deadwyler extended an invitation to all the Directors to attend the
Juneteenth celebration on the Five Points this coming weekend. She shared that
RTD will have a booth located on their own property with the farmer’s market and
encouraged everyone to attend.
IV. Next Meeting July 3, 2012
V. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:17 p.m. to the Government Relations Committee Meeting.

