Dec 13 2018 1200 PM Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: We are now convened at 12:02 PM, Mountain Standard Time, on Thursday,
December 13, 2018, here in the Board Conference Room for the Executive Committee Meeting.
And we have all members of the Executive Committee present except for Second Vice Chair
Deadwyler, and we anticipate will be joining us in person shortly. And also General Manager
Genova and Executive Manager McManus are present in the room with us at this time.
And we can begin, having called the meeting to order, with a review of the December Board
meeting agenda that General Manager and Executive Manager have gone over and presented to
us. Let me just highlight a couple of things in here, and then we'll have discussion regarding the
agenda.
It is, as you know, the last meeting of the year. And as a result, because we have a number of
Directors who are rolling off of the Board, we take the time to give them some special
acknowledgment. And so that's one of the things that will probably take a little bit of time. But
we'll see how much time we want to give it based upon the review of the agenda itself.
And you have that before you. I think it correctly states what items passed through committee.
But before I open up for general discussion, let me ask General Manager and Executive
Manager, any changes to this that you'd like to note at this time? Or is this the agenda that you'd
like to go forward with?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. I just would like to note that the Scouts will be doing the Pledge
of Allegiance, and we'll have the color guard that will be posting the colors. So that is just a little
bit different. Just wanted to mention that.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, thank you. That's right. That's a good thing to mention, that our RTD
Color Guard will actually be the official color guard for that ceremony. So we appreciate that.
All right, discussion, thoughts, questions, comments. Madam First Vice Chair, any thoughts?
NATALIE MENTEN: We have our own color guard, is that what I heard?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Aren't they volunteers?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. They do a lot of events-- for example, the Veterans Day celebration
that we had, they were there. And really, it's a cracker jack team. I mean, they know their stuff.
But most police agencies always have their own internal color guard that they create as well
because they're oftentimes-- not just for things like this, but quite often for funerals and
memorials and stuff, they want to have somebody in place.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.

DOUG TISDALE: And how about Madam Secretary Folska, any thoughts? Questions? Madam
Treasurer, any thoughts?
JUDY LUBOW: No, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. So it sounds like we're in good shape. Any further thoughts or comments
from General Manager on the agenda?
DAVE GENOVA: I have none, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. All right, may I have a motion to approve the Board meeting agenda for
the Tuesday, December 18 Board Meeting?
NATALIE MENTEN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. Do I have a second?
JUDY LUBOW: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a second. Is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all
those in favor, please indicate by saying aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. Let the record reflect that the agenda
has been adopted unanimously as submitted to us. And we look forward to a productive meeting.
The next item on the agenda, you also received a one-page calendar. And so Madam Secretary,
we're not just springing this on you at the last minute. We have circulated this calendar
previously a couple of different times. The only change of which I am aware in the calendar
previously distributed in this one is that we corrected the date for the APTA Board Member and
Board Administrators Seminar. It was listed as November, because that was when they did it this
year, 2018.
In 2019, they're going back to a summer calendar. It's interesting. The meeting's going to be in
Jacksonville, Florida. They could have kept it in November. That would have been nice. This is
going to be in July in Jacksonville. So it could be a little steamy.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh yeah, it will be.
DOUG TISDALE: Other than that change, it's the same calendar that you saw previously. So the
question is, because it's before this committee for its approval that we can then distribute to all of
the Board members, any comments, questions, thoughts, issues associated with the 2019 RTD
Board meeting calendar?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It will go out to the full agency on approval as well.

DOUG TISDALE: Oh, yes. OK, and I'm sorry. I didn't mean to say that somehow we kept it to
ourselves, but rather that it will very much be an important thing. And I hope we don't make any
changes, because I just put all these dates in my calendar very painstakingly yesterday.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You will be the first to know if there are changes.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, it took a lot of time to get all that in. Any thoughts, questions? Dave,
any observations, thoughts, questions?
DAVE GENOVA: No, we've reviewed it, Barbara and I have, and we're good.
DOUG TISDALE: Great. OK, Madam First Vice Chair, any thoughts, issues?
NATALIE MENTEN: I have not studied this in depth, but no, nothing comes to mind.
DOUG TISDALE: Great, thank you. I appreciate that. And Madam Secretary?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Looks great.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, Madam Treasurer?
JUDY LUBOW: Looks good, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. At this time, then, I would accept a motion to approve the
distribution of the 2019 Board Meeting calendar.
JUDY LUBOW: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. Is there a second?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I hear a second. Is there any discussion on the motion? Hearing none, would
all those in favor, please indicate by saying aye?
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none opposed, so that passes unanimously.
And we have an official calendar in place that may be distributed not only to the Board but to the
entire agency and to the inquiring public.
All right. Other matters-- this is your chance. And we'll come back to General Manager in a bit.
We always give him a separate time in this. And obviously, of course, our Executive Manager,
because of the importance of her information that she shares with us. But let me begin with
Madam Vice Chair.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I would like to bring that the item that Director Williams has
attempted to bring forward the other night, but has mentioned it at least to me and to perhaps
others multiple times. And that's about moving the date of the officer elections from the first
special Board meeting currently on the calendar for the 8th. And I did leave a message for Rolf
yesterday, but I did not get a phone call back, to inquire about any potential issues with that.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. And as I recall the specific suggestion that was made was to move it to
the first regular Board meeting as opposed to the special Board meeting, is that right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: She said the 20th, which the next board meeting would be the 29th of
January, so I'm not sure where the date of the 20th came from, but that's what she had cited.
DOUG TISDALE: She did mention that in her comment in the committee meeting on Tuesday
night, yes, but I didn't know if that was intended to be a date certain-- goodness, like the
inauguration of the president, January 20-- or if it was intended to be just indicative of the Board
meeting. Do you know?
NATALIE MENTEN: I think it was her date that she quoted was an error, and she meant either
the 22nd or the 29th.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
NATALIE MENTEN: So Kate has expressed discomfort. I think we all kind of face this on our
first year on the Board-- that it is a little bit strange that we have elections on our very first night.
On the other hand, they do it even down at the state capitol. They're electing officer positions
before they're even sworn in. So it is an uncomfortable and awkward type of position when you
have people calling to lobby you for a vote, and you don't really-- you haven't worked side by
side. It's one thing to perhaps have a coffee or talk on the phone or something. So I'm bringing it
forward as to, one, what are the procedural things that-- could it even be done? Is this of interest
to more than a few people? And so I'm bringing it forward because one of our Board directors
has mentioned over and over, this is of interest to her.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's an excellent question. And that's why we have this meeting, and
that's the idea. Let me go back first to our Executive Manager, because I have, in the back of my
mind, a recollection that this is not an arbitrary procedure or date but rather that it's associated
with-- is it in the bylaws or was it-- it's in the bylaws, so help us with that, so that we
[INAUDIBLE].
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. So it's stated in the bylaws that the Executive Committee be
voted on the first meeting of the year. You know, we always-- there are Directors that are rolling
off and rolling on that ask the question, what happens from December 31 until the first meeting
of the year. And we've addressed that to some of the Directors that have asked that question.
For your knowledge, what the custom has always been, although we've never needed to utilize it
since I've been here, is that the new Directors get paid on January 1 and the old directors roll off
on December 31. But should there be an emergency in the agency from the 1st to the first

meeting date of the year, the veteran Board members are called in to make those decisions
knowing that the new Board members may not be comfortable or know the background to be
able to make that decision, and because they're not sworn in yet.
And there's all sorts of CRS (Colorado Revised Statutes) language that Rolf provided to us that
of course is not in my head as well. And I can forward that memo to you as well. And then
secondly, we have had scenarios in the past, maybe once since I've been here, but looking back at
the history, where there were all veterans that were rolling off on the Executive Committee. And
if we don't make that decision, there is no Executive Committee for that whole length of time. So
that's a little bit of history and background as to why and when it happens.
DOUG TISDALE: And did we distribute Rolf's memo, which I did look at at that meeting
[INAUDIBLE]? Did we distribute that to each member of the Executive Committee?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, because I haven't gotten it back from Rolf yet.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so that was a draft that I looked at.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That was a draft that you reviewed-DOUG TISDALE: And just FYI, I made no comments or changes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --and that I just spoke to.
DOUG TISDALE: I did not-- I said, look, I'm not going to tell the lawyer how to write his
memo. I learned that a long time ago.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Right. And the Directors that did ask that question either spoke to
Rolf directly or I went over what was being reviewed with them, and they didn't seem to have a
problem with it. It was just a question.
DOUG TISDALE: In light of the question raised by the vice chair, let me suggest that we contact
Rolf now and say, look, we really do want to get that distributed to the members of the Executive
Committee, all five of us, as a final, so that we can look at it, be aware of it, and then following
that, absolutely distribute to the full Board. And I'm just saying first to distribute it, because the
question has arisen here, and I think it's appropriate that you all-- and that I see however he may
have changed it too, because I looked at a draft but made no changes.
And then after we have a chance and say, OK, fine, again, we're not here to second guess him
and tell him how to write it. But I do want you to have a chance to see it just before its general
distribution to the full Board, which presumably would be the next day. So if Rolf can get that to
us, let's say tomorrow-- because I don't think he had anything to do with it. I mean the changes.
Sorry. That didn't come out wrong, didn't it? Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: He's just sitting there.

DOUG TISDALE: Let us rewind. Because he has no further action to take relative to that memo,
he ought to be able to finalize it either today or tomorrow, distribute it, and then, assuming that
you all don't have any specific questions about it, because you may raise a question, that's why I
give you that opportunity. But I would say 24 hours later, let's send it to the full Board.
Thoughts?
JUDY LUBOW: And then what, in terms of this issue, for this year?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. What it comes down to is, as Barbara said, the bylaws require this. It
would take a bylaw change.
JUDY LUBOW: Right. Which is two-thirds, at this point, bylaw changes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, but the change in the bylaws is a huge process. It doesn't-JUDY LUBOW: You can do it for one thing, can't you?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, I think what I'm hearing is drafting, circulating, posting, having a voteBARBARA MCMANUS: It would take a long time.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. Well, it probably takes at least a month, is what it takes. And the
elections-- the first meeting would be before that month is up.
JUDY LUBOW: Can we discuss the underlying issue?
DOUG TISDALE: Absolutely. Now, I think-- let me just-- because Director Folska had a
question too, so let me go over that. I don't want you to think I'm ignoring you. Yes, Claudia?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, it seems to me that Director Williams' concern is that these new
incoming Board members which was expressed when she first was elected on the Board is
expected to vote on people they don't know very well. I don't think three weeks of knowing them
is going to give you much more knowing than whatever you would know in the time you got to
know them before you were seated. And so, I mean, I knew-- I spent more time with Director
Williams well before she was thinking of running, let alone after she was elected than I did in the
first month that she was seated, for example. So I'm not sure what the route-I think it really is irrelevant whether we vote on them in the first special session or at the Board
meeting or some other time in January. But the other problem I see with it is that you don't have
an executive board, and you're still working with these folks from years past who are no longer
there. The fact of the matter is, you need somebody on the executive board to operate as an
executive board the day they come back to session, it seems to me. And to get to know people, if
you want to know them, get to know them.

And then on the other hand, you know, I've been on this Board for six years, and I can't say that I
know Director Hoy very well, or Director Sisk or Director Anderson. But I can say that I know
Director Menten. So it's up to the individuals to make it their priority to know who they want to
know.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think I saw Vice Chair's hand up too. Let me go back to you first and
then we'll go back to Director Lubow.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't know that I had my hand up, actually. I'm in listening mode.
DOUG TISDALE: Any further thoughts?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I too feel that the reason why it's done the first week, even though
it's in a way illogical to ask people to vote for people they don't know is that if you hold it off,
you're holding off having an Executive Committee. And they do important functions, like
signing checks. And I don't see how you get around that. I don't know how you get around that
need to have a sitting appropriate Executive Committee from the start, unless you would do
something temporary and then have a permanent vote which, to me, is a possibility, but sounds
cumbersome.
And I do want to say that obviously it's a bylaw change, and that's a big deal. It doesn't mean it
can't be done, but it has to be dealt with in that heavy process. So I don't see any good way to
deal with this personally, but I would certainly be willing to listen to other people's ideas.
NATALIE MENTEN: Maybe when I did have my hand, go back to Rolf's memo. This is a
memo that was put together after what he heard on Tuesday?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. This was a memo that was put together in 1998, that we just went
back in and made sure that all the CRS language was still the same, made any appropriate
changes that needed to be made and ready for distribution, prior to the end of the year so that
everybody knew where they stood and what the protocol was.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is this the normal memo that we get each time we go though this?
BARBARA MCMANUS: One of them, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. I mean, it's been around for 20 years, and he was just making sure that
it was updated correctly so that you don't cite a statute that's been amended or something. So did
I see your hand up, Claudia?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, you did. And then there is the question of knowing how well you
know someone is a very subjective thing. And you can know someone for a year or two, you
think you know them, and then actually you don't. So if you think you're going to be on the
Board and you know you're going to have to vote, it's incumbent, I think, upon these incoming
Board members, to make it their business to know who is the current executive board, what have

they done, and do some research on those individuals. I mean, you are going to be working with
them. So ultimately, I don't see a reason to change it at all.
DOUG TISDALE: Further-- yes, I'm sorry. If you don't mind, let me-- OK, you're good? We'll
go with you, Madam Vice Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'll just say that I think the matter now has been addressed by this
committee, and I'm happy to reach out to Kate myself and just say, you know, here are the
hurdles, and here are the points that were raised. And if you'd like to bring up the matter again,
I'd suggest perhaps coming to the next Executive Committee meeting and have a longer time to
play on this, if there are any changes, and if bylaws need to be amended that would take some
time. And there is a process for everything, and right now we've explored it. But it doesn't look
like a possibility for January 2019.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I think that's a fair assessment, and I appreciate that. And I appreciate
also your volunteering to reach out to her. I think that would be nice. I think we all can too. It's
not to the exclusion of others, reaching out to her. But I appreciate knowing that we have a point
person who will do that, so that we make sure it doesn't get dropped. And in any event, the
memo will be circulated as well. Claudia, if you don't mind just a half a second, Barbara had her
hand up first.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just wanted to follow up to some of the comments that Director
Folska made, in that when each of the candidates initially starts-- and this has happened with all
of you when you were on the Board-- you hear from this office starting in January, and you get a
schedule that starts from election day forward on what possible responsibilities are for you. It's
elective for the new Board members, the directors-elect, to come to the trainings, to come to the
meetings. But we put all the information out there, and we socialize that starting in January to
help them realize what their service will include and what it does take to get to the point of the
first meeting of the year when they are inducted in as a Board member for the first time.
So, you know, I think that it's clear to each one of them, regardless of whether they have been
full-time participants or not, that that responsibility is part of theirs. And I have to say that I, for
as long as I have been here, have never had anybody have a problem with or come to me with a
question regarding that being out of order. I just-JUDY LUBOW: Kate.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, she never came to me. So I didn't know that she was bringing it
up and that it was an issue.
JUDY LUBOW: I remember her yelling somewhere. But that's all right. Yeah.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So, I mean, I'm happy to address any of this. And it's my job here to
empower each and every one of you to get done the work you want to get done within the
guidelines that are given to us to move things forward. And so I invite you all to do that.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Now, Director Folska, Madam Secretary.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Just the last thing I wanted to suggest, Director Menten, we have two
categories-- objective and subjective issues that Director Williams is talking about. And the
objective ones are the constraints and parameters of changing any bylaws. In general, there's a
process. It takes a supermajority to change any bylaw, on and on and on. And then this subjective
piece about knowing really, and that is up to every individual. And that's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, I think that's a good discussion. If we can, if you're concluded with the
discussion-- if you're not, please tell me-- but if we can, then I suggest we have Vice Chair
Menten speak with Director Williams-- and each of us is also welcome to speak with her in
addition to that-- and that we ask General Counsel to circulate that memo as soon as possible to
this committee to make sure that everybody has a chance to see it. And then, 24 hours later at the
most, even sooner, if people just say, yes, fine, send it up-- but no more than 24 hours after we
get it to make sure that every Board member, which includes, by the way, the new Board
members, everything since the election, just so that you all know and we put it on the record so
that the record knows, everything that we circulate to the Board has also been circulated to the
new Board members. Yes, Madam Secretary.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I was just wondering, it is an important fact that I think should not be
glossed over. It used to be, before Chair Tobiassen came on as Chair, a simple majority to
change the bylaws. And then he changed that to a supermajority to change the bylaws. And I
think it's important for-- it would be helpful maybe to remind our incoming Board members that
it requires a supermajority to change the bylaws, anything in there.
DOUG TISDALE: Point well taken. Any further discussion? We're ready, and we're content with
proceeding as I have outlined? Any objection? Hearing none, we shall do so. Other other matters,
then? And first I'll stay with Vice Chair for a second. Anything else that you wanted to bring?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. I just wanted to make sure, on the new three hour, what are all the
options to buy the three hour pass?
DAVE GENOVA: So the options are, you can buy it on the mobile platform, you can buy it out
of the ticket vending machine-- well, essentially, everywhere where you would have before
bought your one way fare, you can buy the-- because the three hour pass replaces-NATALIE MENTEN: Is the one way.
DAVE GENOVA: --the one way fare. It is the one way fare. So it's a hard thing to communicate,
because it's the same thing. We call it a little something different. So everywhere that you could
have purchased it before you'll be able to purchase it now. The addition, though, is mobile
ticketing, because when we first rolled out mobile ticketing, the only thing available on mobile

ticketing was the day pass. And now on mobile ticketing, you can buy the day pass, the three
hour pass, and the monthly pass, and then all the various discounts.
NATALIE MENTEN: So if you bought it-- so there would be certain ways that you would buy it
where you're still going to have to use the validator? Is that right?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, if you bought a coupon book, something like that, then you would have
to use the validator.
NATALIE MENTEN: So the only thing I would like to bring up, then, is there's two items that
are in the folder, a flyer, that just-- me being nitpicky, I guess. This might be a little more clear if
it's also saying-- because we're going to get into arguments about, your bus was late and it's now
3:01, and duh-duh-duh. But it doesn't say validator. [INAUDIBLE] kind of purchase or issue. So
when we make more of these flyers, I'm asking your input, would it be good to add in something
that also puts that validation? So I'll leave that for you to think about.
DAVE GENOVA: I understand what you're saying.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. So the question is raised-DAVE GENOVA: So you would add or at point or at time of validation?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And then there's one last one in here I wanted-DAVE GENOVA: I have it on my desk, and I didn't bring it in.
NATALIE MENTEN: No, it's all right. I'm going to give you this one.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sure Madam Vice Chair will be happy to give you her copy when she's
made notes on it.
NATALIE MENTEN: I well, because there's just one other one I want to just make sure, it's the
Access-A-Ride here. I just would like to know if perhaps we might be a little better off with this
one, where it says Access-A-Ride $20 for trips to and from the airport. Somebody could read that
maybe as $20, there and back.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, it does sound like round trip.
NATALIE MENTEN: So it's to or from?
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, one way.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Each way.
NATALIE MENTEN: Those are the only two items-- it does really say it right above it, but just
to be really clear, before I print another batch of these.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think each way is better.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm just being really nit-picky, Dave.
DAVE GENOVA: No. And you know what? This is good because, believe me, we've had a lot
of conversation around the three hour pass, because I'm concerned that people will say, I don't
want to buy three hours. I just want to buy my one way fare. But being able to explain that it's
the same as what we previously called the one way fare.
NATALIE MENTEN: So since I got the new booklets and I'm now going to councils and
handing them out and doing all these things, I just wanted to-- the staff may go, oh my god, she's
just being a pain in the butt.
DAVE GENOVA: No, that's fine, because, I mean, we've put a lot of thought into these and we
have lots of discussions. And we appreciate all the eyes and thoughts on this that we can get,
because sometimes we don't always-- you know, we're so close to things that sometimes we don't
look at it the same way.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I do enough things myself that after you look at something about 25
times, you're numb to it.
DAVE GENOVA: And another thing I'll just let the Executive Committee know about that we've
had some conversation about, is because of the way we do fare inspection-- and this came up
actually because a Director-elect had put something out in a newsletter about how you could buy
your ticket at this time, get on this bus, and then be downtown two hours, and then get on this
train, and you could do all that within three hours. So on rail, because you can be inspected at
any time, because that's how we do fare inspection, it has to be valid. That three hour pass has to
be valid for the entire trip, because you could get inspected at any time. But when you get on a
bus, you only get inspected when you board. And just like how we had the time limit on the
transfers, there's just kind of the art of either the operator or the inspector using some judgment
and things like that. So you see the nuance I'm explaining.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm using it.
NATALIE MENTEN: No, really, I didn't-DAVE GENOVA: Well, somebody could get on a bus. Let's say my ticket expires at 3 o'clock. I
could get on the bus and show the operator at 2:59, and I've got valid fare at 2:59. But at 3:01,
my fare is not valid anymore.
JUDY LUBOW: Right. So on the rail, it has to be-DAVE GENOVA: But on the rail, if you get on at 2:59 and you get inspected at 3:15--

JUDY LUBOW: So is what the Director wrote-- it's not necessarily correct depending on which
mode?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, it's a nuance in how the inspection is done. And so we're not going to
essentially communicate this-- basically, we say you have to have valid fare. And valid fare
means that your fare product is good for the duration of your trip.
JUDY LUBOW: So you're just not addressing what he or she said?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, not in those level of details, because then it comes up, well, why is it
different on bus and why is it different on rail? But you see, it's just in the form of the way we
inspect.
DOUG TISDALE: I think it is fair to say-- and I like your expression of the artfulness of it.
There is a science and an art. We heard about that at the Leadership Academy keynote address
today. Technically, the science is, it is exactly three hours. But there is an artfulness that you can
get on a bus, and you're good, even though you are now well past the three hours. Whereas on
the rail, you might not be inspected at all, but if you are inspected some time after that three
hours, then you are in violation.
DAVE GENOVA: And similarly, if you had boarded a bus and then got a transfer or you bought
something out of a ticket vending machine, it would the same way, because the time is on that-the time would be on that transfer, and the time would be on the-- so our folks are used to
dealing with this. But it's just a little nuance of-- because of the point of inspection.
JUDY LUBOW: Interesting.
NATALIE MENTEN: And the same way with the rail. Let's say you're going W Line, going all
down to DTC (Denver Tech Center). So you've gone past the two zones. That's going to be a
regional. But if you were taking a bus all the way from Golden down to DTC, here, here, here,
here, it's still going to be a local, probably local bus. I'm saying you're using local buses, because
there is no regional, actually.
DOUG TISDALE: Because you would have transferred from one bus to another, because there
is not one that goes from the Golden Justice Center down to Denver Tech Center.
DAVE GENOVA: If you have a local product and you're getting on a local trip, you're fine. But
if you have a local product and you want to get on a regional trip, you're going to have the
regional problem.
NATALIE MENTEN: So for those who say, well, it's still gentrification because we have this
with the rail, you could get on a bus, and you could travel from Golden to Aurora.
DAVE GENOVA: You'd be making a bunch of transfers.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, you still to transfer from the W Line to another line. It's not a one
seat ride.
NATALIE MENTEN: It's not a one seat ride no matter what. But if you were on a bus, it would
be a local fare, depending on the buses. But if you were doing it by trains, you're going to be
doing a regional.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: God, I'm glad I'm blind. It makes life so much easier.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, really, this is a great benefit.
NATALIE MENTEN: We're going to make this easier. And I'm not going [INAUDIBLE].
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But I did have a question for you about this.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: One at a time, please. We are being recorded. One at a time, please. All right,
anything further, Madam Vice Chair?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, that was it for me.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Madam Secretary.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Mr. Genova, so if you're on the bus or the train, let's just say
the train breaks down. And had you completed your trip, you would have been there within the
time frame and your ticket would have been valid. But not so many people are riding. It's not
rush hour or something, so it's not the most obvious thing that there was a delay due to our fault.
Then do you have something in place where a customer can tell the fare inspector, look, this was
a great-- and I know they can verify it probably. What's the process?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you. It happens regularly today. So it wouldn't be any different than
what we do today. So the customer can report-- let's say they're out of station. And the ticket
vending machines, I don't know, they won't take cash or they're not working at that particular
station, and they board the train. And they tell the inspector at the time when they get inspected,
the ticket vending machine wasn't working. The inspector will call into the control center and
verify, was that machine working or not? So we do have processes in place. And even if
somebody was to receive a violation, we have an appeal process for that violation that they could
appeal it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And then it's reasonable? OK, thank you. I was pretty sure.

DAVE GENOVA: So certainly, if it's a delay caused by us, we would do our best to make sure
the patron is treated fairly, of course.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And then finally, way back when the A Line opened in November, there
were people who were pretty irate because they missed their plane, and they wanted-- what was
the final outcome of all that compensation requested? What came of that?
DAVE GENOVA: We have not compensated anybody. It's been our longstanding policy across
all of our modes that we don't compensate for those kinds of things.
DOUG TISDALE: And for the sake of the record, if I may supplement that response, I believe
we have also checked with other agencies around the country. And I think our Executive
Manager did and had confirmed that we are not aware of, nor did we discover during the course
of that examination, other agencies that had any kind of compensation policy in place under such
circumstances. All right. Anything further, Madam Secretary?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: For other matters? Thank you. All right, Madam Treasurer, anything from
you on other matters?
JUDY LUBOW: Not anymore, thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh. I do have something for other matters. I just didn't have anything for
that other matter.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, on any other matter. Yes, please. [INAUDIBLE].
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So I was curious about the process by which we came back with an
agenda item at the last meeting on Tuesday night with regard to our contribution to DRCOG
(Denver Regional Council of Governments). What I was reflecting on is, we had a quorum. And
the majority of the people voted for supporting the DRCOG recommended action, but it wasn't
sufficient according to the bylaws to pass. But there was a quorum.
And so my concern is the legitimacy of the Board of Directors, when they have a quorum to do
their work, and then it's kind of undermined or is subterfuged or what have you at a later date, or
most immediate date there following, ultimately undermining the authority of the Board at that
time, regardless of whether it's DRCOG or anything else. And so I'd like to get some clarification
on that, if I may.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me begin the process, and then I think our Executive Manager can weigh
in on it as well. The important distinction is, we are a creature of statute. We are not a standalone
agency that is a self-governing agency. We are a creature of statute. It is the statute that imposes
upon us the requirement that any affirmative action, any motion resolution therefore, must
receive eight votes, regardless of the presence of a quorum.

That's for a substantive action. Obviously, that doesn't impact things like a motion to recess, a
motion to adjourn, some kind of procedural motion. It is a substantive motion that, pursuant to
statute, requires eight votes. So to the extent that there is a desire to change that, the answer lies
in the legislature, not in this Board. Now, am I correct, Barbara, from your understand?
DAVE GENOVA: From the conversation I had with Rolf, yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But I could submit to you, very respectfully, I might add, that there is a
longstanding history on this Board to move forward with substantive votes with less than eight,
that it's 7-5, 7-3, whatever, because there was a quorum, and therefore it was a majority vote
rather than eight. So that would then invalidate everything prior to that got seven votes or less
but was a majority. So I mean, I'm concerned about the generalization. If that's the rule, then
nothing before that had seven votes, or less than eight votes but passed of substance, is actually
invalid.
DOUG TISDALE: I can't address that in terms of not knowing about the specifics. I can tell you
what-- because I did check after Rolf made the observation and confirmed, yes, the statute does
require the eight votes, except by the way of certain matters relative to federal funding where we
have to have 10 votes. So there's-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's a supermajority, yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: --that too. But in terms of whether we've had seven, I guess I would leave it
to our Executive Manager and our General Manager to say if they're aware of any. But I can tell
you that our goal, General Counsel, my goal, and I believe the goal of this committee and
Executive Manager and General Manager, is to make sure that in all respects at all times we
comply with that law.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So if I may just suggest that we review all votes that came that were less
than eight of substance, and I'd like to have an audit of that and see what they are and determine
whether they were valid or not valid. And if that's really the practice, then it needs to be really
clearly articulated to this Board that anything less than eight votes, no matter quorum or not,
won't go anywhere.
DOUG TISDALE: I hear the request. I think it's a legitimate question to ask. I don't know if we
need to phrase it as an audit, but it is definitely a legitimate question. But let me have our
Executive Manager chime in on this at this point.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we asked-- so there were two Directors that tried to make a motion
to-- so Chair Sisk tried to make a motion to rescind his vote in order to look at it again, and thenJUDY LUBOW: To reconsider.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --then Director Hoy did it also, but they did not do it in time. It would
have had to be done at the time of the vote. And Rolf did address that the night of the meeting.

After the fact, I know that some of the Directors that weren't in attendance had a little bit of agita
about the decision that was made and asked what could be done about it. Rolf checked into
Robert's Rules, and he came back and said that there was a way to bring it forward. He and the
Chair had a discussion about those Robert's Rules and said that it fit the criteria to bring forward
again, and it was brought forward.
In the meantime, there were some questions-- there were some concerns of some Directors that
staff either brought to the meeting or spoke to the Directors ahead of time, letting them know that
some of their concerns were not valid-- A, that ADA recipients can use it. They checked-- and he
did use it at that point in time, and there weren't any at that point in time, that it was not only
serving-- that they were serving all communities, the low-income community as well as all other
communities.
That information, I think, was brought to Director Solano prior to the meeting. At that point, he
changed his vote. So all of these things, the whole motion from Director Sisk wanting to make
the change in the meeting up to and including bringing it back in the next meeting, were all in
proper order according to Rolf.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, I think the question raised by the Secretary goes beyond that. I
mean, I think we're all OK with what happened because it was, in fact, appropriately and
properly handled.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: The other question that I hear is, OK, fine. In any event, it seems to me, as I
hear the Secretary-- and I don't mean to put words in your mouth, but I'm trying just to
summarize-- it seems to me that in the past, in years past, we have adopted substantive motions-not just procedural motions, but substantive motions-- by this Board by a majority of seven,
rather than eight, when that constituted a majority. And the request is, can we look back and see,
are there, in fact, such instances?
My suggestion would be that in the first instance, we can ask for an administrative review by
Board staff to see if there is anything that we're aware of. Then we can also ask Board members
who have been on for a while whether they have any recollection that might assist staff. It's just
that in the first instance, you used the word audit, and I want to be somewhat cautious about the
use of that word, until we at least have some indication whether there might be such an issue.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I think that is just a term I use to be clear-- to review or audit-because you're really looking at eight versus an eight when we have a full sitting Board is a
simple majority.
DOUG TISDALE: Correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: When we have people absent, that simple majority number is reduced. So
we still have a simple majority, but it isn't eight because several people are missing. But we have
a quorum. And if you have a quorum and the majority voted this way or that way, it is.

Now, again, in that case, the majority voted seven to whatever it was, five or so, it should have
then passed. And I think that's something that we need to get our heads around. Eight says, you
don't get eight, you're out. But in that case, we had a majority of seven but we didn't meet the
eight. Do you see what I'm saying?
DOUG TISDALE: I exactly see. And that's the question-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's sort of this sticky thing about this crazy eight. I get the eight. That's
great. But when we have a quorum, then we need to be able to say, OK, well, the eight may not
be appropriate in a quorum of 10.
DOUG TISDALE: And that is the reason for my comment-- that you raise an excellent point.
You need to raise it with the General Assembly of the State of Colorado. We did not set that rule.
The legislature imposed that in the Regional Transportation District Act, and it may only be
changed legislatively and not by this body.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: The eight.
DOUG TISDALE: Correct. That's my point. Your question is, have we in fact always operated
that way? Shouldn't we look and be able to say with a straight face to our knowledge-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I do think that's important.
DOUG TISDALE: --we've always operated that way.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, 'cause I feel like we've done-- we've moved forward with things.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I hear the question. I think is there any uncertainty on the part of anyone
in the room relative to the discussion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And it might be one in a million. But I think just with our new Board
coming, it would be nice to be very clear about that. It would help me a lot.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. All right.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would like to know then, for the documentation, and this applies more to
just this question, it's when I myself am going to look up a vote, and I've got to go back and try
and figure out, I think it was this month, I think it was this committee, because we don't always
have consistency. We've got actions, same action, one time it'll come through this committee,
then it goes through this committee. I'm trying to hunt this stuff up. Do we have a spreadsheet
with all the votes?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. We do a search by that item. We do a search by that item, and we
look at what Board meeting it was approved at. And then we can look back at what committee it
was in.

DOUG TISDALE: Because that would be indicated just as it is here on this agenda that this item
is presented as recommended action or unanimous consent having been reviewed by the blank
committee.
NATALIE MENTEN: So in that same note then, moving forward, how would we make
something that would be similar to when I go to look up a legislative bill and, you know, they've
got options, they got the red book, they got the session book, they've got all these things. How
would we move forward and say, I want to know every time we did a Jacobs Engineering
contract. Seems to me like, you know, we're adding on all the time. When did we do the
Dataman contract? When did we do this? How do we then make it easier for all of us to be able
to reference back, what was that vote?
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So as I hear the question, it is, can staff advise as to whether such a
process is, A, doable and, B, what would it cost if we were to do that, and, C, if we cannot, what
is the workaround we would propose? Because I don't hear you asking saying, OK, from now on,
I want us to do that, but rather can you please explore, tell us is it possible, what it would cost,
because there's a cost associated with these things, and if it is a significant cost, is there a
workaround that would do it, such as I can do a Google search and I don't have to know what a
bill number was or a date was, Google will just give me all the possibilities and I can work from
there. So do you understand the question and you're comfortable with that? OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: And-DOUG TISDALE: Last thoughts.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I am also curious to what Director Folska is asking, and that is
historically, I've wondered the same thing, knowing about the eight vote, the 10 vote, because
right after that meeting, which I was kind of surprised-- eight, OK, we didn't do it. Have we
always followed that?
JUDY LUBOW: Don't know.
NATALIE MENTEN: You know, especially with the federal-- I don't know until I would see
some data.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, and further to your point, Director Menten, we were having a
quorum, and it didn't get eight votes. So it failed, and it legitimately failed. And all the technical
issues of Board members being gone, Board members not being on time with their "I don't want
this event," too bad. Those are the parameters. Those are the bylaws. Those are the rules that we
all operate under. And every other instance when other Board members didn't know, it was just
too bad. And so, I mean-DOUG TISDALE: If I can try to summarize and close, because I think we're pretty well
exhausted this discussion at this point. Let me just say that one critical element that comes out of
this is that I think we need to express clearly to new Directors and ratify with existing Directors

the rule of eight, and that it's a legislative rule. Did you have a final comment too, Judy? I
thought-- you don't have to make one up. I mean, if you're done, you're done.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm done.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Vice Chair, you have a final comment.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And this does relate to exactly what I'm kind of going after, is that
we just recently approved the-- what's our data management acronym?
DAVE GENOVA: ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning).
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: ERP. Enterprise-NATALIE MENTEN: That's the licenses, but this is the data management, where we've got a-we've got a contract with somebody who's coming in to get our records better ordered.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh. Enterprise content management, the software.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Is that part of this? Because you say, well, there's costs. Well, I'm
always thinking, what's the additional costs? OK, what do we already got that is in the works that
we should be using?
DOUG TISDALE: I think org staff understands, that's the inquiry. Just tell us what we have, tell
us what it would take, tell us what it would cost, and if doing some kind of standalone separate
thing is too challenging, too expensive, what's the workaround? I think our Executive Manager
understands the scope of the question. I think we've pretty adequately covered that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to add that I am in the process right now, it's been on my
plate since I started here, I've been documenting and putting processes in place for the last eight
and a half years. As you know, two and a half years ago, I finished the project where all the
resolutions are in one spot. And we have a spreadsheet where all of them are listed, and you can
do a search. That project took three years, two temporary staff people part time, just as a
reference.
And what you're asking for is a project probably five times that big. Right now, I'm in the
process of doing the same thing with all the policies, working with staff and each of the
departments to get all of the policies, the Board-approved policies, that they're using as
guidelines, and putting them in one place, looking at them to see if they need to be brought
forward to the Board. Some of them tend to be obsolete, not that they don't work, but I think they
could be refreshed. And that project has been going on for two years, and I probably have
another two years to go on that. And I'm not bringing in any temporary staff because I'm trying
to reduce my overtime, which we have this year. And the Chair has been reviewing that. But that
would also take temporary staff to be brought in to do that, because it's very tedious, and it's a
long project with a lot of items.

And I will look into exactly what-- and I will look into what we have in the software and what
we can look up for you if you're looking, but prior to software, everything is paper. And you're
talking about sitting there, sifting through paper, and looking through scanned documents. That
was a whole other project that was taken on by this Board office, because when they were
scanned, they were just scanned in order in no number. We've been going into each individual
one of those items and renaming them, getting rid of the duplicates, and seeing what we have in
far, assuring things up, as the custodian of information in this department. And we're in good
shape, but we're nowhere where we need to be. It's a long process.
DOUG TISDALE: And that's beneficial. And I think it's fair to say that Vice Chair was not
asking for an immediate response on this. But if we can formulate some thoughts along that line- but it does help to put it in context. Any further discussion on this, or do we feel we've pretty
much beaten that dead horse?
NATALIE MENTEN: Just to check with the resolutions, are those then on the website public
access portal where you go to more media? Could I get a copy of the spreadsheet? I may-- yeah,
if you could send me that, that would be nice.
DOUG TISDALE: Because that's a link that's available to all the Board.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. You have to ask for it. It's housed on our dedicated drive here.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And I think-- and again, because we've always said this, whenever any
Director asked for something, we of course make sure that every director gets all the
information.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Director Menten has a list, but it's not current. I think it's a few
years old.
DOUG TISDALE: So we'll make sure we get that. Anything further? We good? OK. All right,
General Manager, you've been so patient.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: He is patient.
DOUG TISDALE: As we've gone through these things. The question is, do you have anything to
[INAUDIBLE]?
DAVE GENOVA: I have nothing, other than we continue to go back and forth with DTP
(Denver Transit Partners) on our plan. And hopefully we'll be ready to submit tomorrow. If we're
not quite there tomorrow, we have Saturday as well. But our plan is to submit tomorrow. We've
gone back and forth with a couple of red lines with them and even had another call with the FRA
(Federal Railroad Administration) yesterday. It was just my own-- so it's just-- it's in progress.
DOUG TISDALE: And let me just, if I may, before I recognize you, Vice Chair, just point out
that our General Manager has in fact kept me informed also, and I have responded to those who
have asked questions about it, I'm not trying to broadcast this because I don't want to burden

people with it. But everyone knows they can also contact me, just to hear what Dave just said,
the general status report. I'm not involved in the process of creating the document, but I am being
kept informed as to where we are. And it is important to note that, and I know that our treasurer
will appreciate this, perhaps more than most.
Technically we could get an answer in Monday and be timely, because the 30th day falls on the
weekend, and the law would require that it carry over to the next business day that is not a
Saturday or Sunday or legal holiday. That said, I am informed, hope to get to the FRA tomorrow,
if not tomorrow, then Saturday. So Director Folska, I saw Director Menten first, so let me go to
her, and then to you, and then to Director Lubow.
NATALIE MENTEN: Does DTP have some response besides it is physically impossible?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, they do, because the FRA said-- they made it very clear we need to see
ideas that will generate incremental change. They said, we don't want you to come back to us and
say, this is how our system works, and therefore it's fine. They were clear about that, which
would be, I think, kind of directly answering your question. And then the other thing they said is,
we don't want you to come back to us and say, well, we're going to study it. No, we want you to
tell us, in fact, what you will do and then what you expect to gain from those things.
NATALIE MENTEN: In the software changes that were installed some months ago, was there
quite a bit of substantial improvement?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, I believe, if I can be clear, so there was two crossings, Holly and
Monaco, where they made an adjustment called-- I'm going to use an acronym, it's an ACAF. It's
an Approach Condition Adjustment Factor. So it's an adjustment they make to the software. So
it's like putting in a timer kind of, but you're doing it in the software. So that made significant
improvements to those two crossings. And the data that FRA was using to talk about their 90%,
that was data before those improvements were made, right before Thanksgiving. And so that one
change, that adjustment, was significant.
And so really the opportunity is is for DTP to be able to look at all the data. And now we're also
looking at the data as well, even though it's DTP's job and their responsibility, we've put
resources on to look at the data and do our own analysis and determine when you have an
anomaly-- so an anomaly would mean something that falls outside the buffer time-- why do you
have that anomaly? And is it an excused anomaly?
So there are certain things the FRA excuses, like if you had a maintenance issue or other kinds of
things, they're like, yeah, those things happen. We realize that. Those would be excused. And
then they have their categories of things that like, no, these are not excusable. And so we need to
do something to address those. And so I think what the FRA had been more hopeful about is that
they would have received more analyses like that throughout the process, and DTP has been
resistant to put the resources on to do those analyses. And even though we've made it clear to
them time and time and time again, they need to be doing that analysis.

And the same to be said is like, OK, well, why did it take you so long to get this ACAF
adjustment at Holly and Monaco? Why didn't you make that a year ago? And they don't have a
good response.
NATALIE MENTEN: Then I'll leave that as the question. I do want to comment on one thing
that's a little bit off topic, but not really, and that is I've still got concerns about the North Metro
operation. I am not comfortable feeling like one that we are going to have accurate numbers, and
that maybe those numbers may change over time and balloon. And then also we're going to look
back and go, it would have been much better to have DTO (Denver Transit Operators). And I
think there is a bias present that really should be aimed at DTC (Denver Transit Constructors),
DTS (Denver Transit Systems), [INAUDIBLE], on the construction and the crossings, when
meanwhile we have performance our Chair is bragging about at a meeting with on time
performance for the A Line, what his statement was, can't even match us around the country, or
something along that line.
Yet we're going to have North Line operated by our folks. And my gut tells me, one, the numbers
are going to balloon at some point. And we'll look back and go, well, we didn't know it at that
time, duh duh duh. And that, two, we're having two dispatch operations. And it's going to create
problems, and with a single track, we are going to have on time performance issues. So I'm just
sharing with you, that's how much I'm still sitting. I had a meeting with Henry, and I'm waiting
to get some more numbers. But I feel a little bit like my hands are tied because of executive
sessions. So I'm still uncomfortable. So I'll let it move on back to DTP and A Line, because I was
off track a little bit there.
DAVE GENOVA: If I could just respond to that, a couple of items, Mr. Chair. So the dispatch
question is still being worked through. And I know DTP feels strongly one way. Keep in mind,
their mission is to protect their commercial position. Almost everything they do is protecting
their commercial position.
Secondly, they proposed three separate times to operate and maintain the North Metro Line,
through our regular procurement process. And each time they took exceptions to the scope, and
each time it was a guaranteed minimum price. And then the last time they proposed, they said,
well, give us a 10-year contract with the 10-year options. We'll put the renewals in year 11. So
that's why some of their pricing on that one-sheeter that they gave us might look more attractive.
They don't have those renewals material until the year 11 that we think need to be happening
through that 10-year period.
So there's a lot of things in their price that's not considered. And keep in mind, what they've
always given us was a guaranteed minimum price. And they never gave us a proposal that
matched the scope of work that we gave them, throughout our formal procurement process with
them.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't remember hearing minimum. I thought it was guaranteed price.
DAVE GENOVA: No, it was not a guarant-- it was a guaranteed minimum, just like with the
one-sheeter they have, there's no consideration in there for-- well, I haven't done the analysis that

Henry and his team have done, but I would suspect that there's not renewals, there's not spare
parts. It's an extreme minimum bare bones operation. Why aren't they compliant now? Why
aren't they doing the analysis on their anomalies, because they don't have the resources to do it,
and they don't want to put the resources on it. So we think one of the big issues around their
compliance issues is they don't have an adequate number of resources in their operations.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So I'm still waiting for those proposals. That's one of the requests
that Henry has, to give me his-- so OK.
DAVE GENOVA: But I just want to-- I just want to put that information out there because I
think what they've really given us is really a one-sided thing, and they're kind of leaning on, oh,
this dispatch is going to be a mess. And we're working through that. And it doesn't have to be. It
doesn't have to be. Two parties to work things out.
DOUG TISDALE: I thank you for the question, Madam Vice Chair. It is only slightly off topic.
And I think that it would be beneficial for the new Executive Committee, however it may be
constituted, to continue to have discussions with General Manager in that regard.
DAVE GENOVA: And if I may add, it is complicated because it's hard to make an apples to
apples comparison, because of our approach to how we would operate and maintain it, and how
they would do it. They wouldn't have a rescue train. There's other things that are just not
included.
JUDY LUBOW: They don't have a renewal clause.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. All right. Then we were-- and you are next in line, Madam Secretary,
and then Madam Treasurer after that. So yes, Claudia.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. My question for you, Mr. Genova, is, what is-- and I know
that you're probably really good about this kind of planning in the event that the federal
government shuts down for any period of time. How are you prepared to respond to that-- in
terms of funding and FRA and-JUDY LUBOW: It's a different question.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, I understand. Mr. Chair, I anticipated if there is a short term or
temporary government shutdown, I think for us it would be business as usual.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, so it doesn't impact our response to the FRA? It doesn't impact our
funding?
DAVE GENOVA: No. We will give our response, and they'll do their review. I don't know-- at
the FRA level, I would imagine the folks that are going to be doing the primary review are
mission critical people that probably would be expected to be at work, even with a shutdown.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: No, that's an excellent question. Let me just point out that in any event our
response is due prior to any threatening of shutdowns. We have that. But you raise an excellent
point, Madam Secretary, because the issue is, we have been advised by FRA that it will be just a
matter of days for them to respond as to whether the plan is adequate. And we would hope that
that response would be before the Friday deadline, because I think it's Friday the 21st. Is that
right? I can't read the calendar from here. But in any-- yes, it's Friday the 21st is the shutdown
deadline. And we'll see what happens. But in any event, we hope to hear from them before that
date.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excellent, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Madam Treasurer, you had a thought or a question.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. The analysis keeps talking about our response, and I'm wondering legally,
is this DTP's response? Or is it legally both?
DOUG TISDALE: Legally, it's our railroad.
JUDY LUBOW: I see. So it's not theirs.
DOUG TISDALE: It's our railroad. It's not their railroad. They are merely a concessionaire. I'm
sorry. I didn't mean to-JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: --sorry, I just wanted to give a direct answer. It's our railroad. It's our
response.
JUDY LUBOW: But they have most of the data and most of their ideas. So it's our response, but
they have to give us the information. I see.
DOUG TISDALE: Nicely summarized.
DAVE GENOVA: And in that regard, it's challenging for us. But we have several technical
teams that work for us, that we have also looking at the same data sets and are also sitting side by
side and asking questions. Like, what if you did this or what if we did that or what about this
other possible.
JUDY LUBOW: So could it be an A and B submittal, where they will say, oh, we can do X, Y,
and Z. And we would say, yeah, but we might do A, B, C, D, and F, if it doesn't work for them.
DAVE GENOVA: We have to be cautious because we want one submittal, because we don't
want to create any confusion of, is this the plan or is this the plan? And so believe me, we've had
a lot of interesting conversations, our team has, as far as the approach. So at the end of the day, if
there's things that we want to put in there that DTP won't agree to, or if there's things that we
think they should be giving to us to put in there, then we're going to have to make it kind of a

commercial decision based on risk about how we approach that. But we will give them one
document, so there's no confusion that there's one point.
Now, there's ways to be creative about it. Like, we could say, we can put an appendix or
something like that, and we could refer them to an appendix that would be an additional
information. So one of the things, for example, is the oversight process that we have in place
now. I want the FRA to be very clear on what we're doing for oversight, and how we're even
expanding that now, because I think that will bring the FRA a great deal of comfort that we
really have our finger on what's going on.
JUDY LUBOW: So are we making this commercial decision prior to submitting this particular
submittal?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, we will. And we'll use our judgment on that, because we don't want to
buy all the risk back. You know, we don't want to buy the claim that they have. So we kind of
have to walk that line.
JUDY LUBOW: That's part of this submission, is making at least the decision up to a point.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, kind of walking that line about if we say, OK, DTP, we think you
should say this. And they say, no, we don't want to say it. Well, could you say it this way or
could you do this or approach this? And I haven't heard that there's-- I mean, obviously, we've
seen a couple of drafts that we've read. And the most recent one was a red line that we gave back
to them yesterday. And so today is Thursday. We're expecting their final product back to us no
later than first thing tomorrow morning. And then we'll do our final review, and then our final
adjustments on it.
But I'm not hearing from the team-- I mean, believe me, this is challenging. Every step of this
contract has been challenging since 2010. But the team is working really, really hard and lots of
hours, between Joe Christie and Henry and our legal team and then also our technical consultants
that we have helping us. So our goal is to get a good plan in front of them. And again, I've
offered to the FRA to come to Washington next week. We said, you know, don't just make a
decision without hearing from us.
JUDY LUBOW: What'd they say?
DAVE GENOVA: They said they would not send us a letter without contacting us. And I'm
confident. But again, I'm very confident that we're going to get a plan that they can say yes to.
I've been talking to DTP at the highest levels, short of their CEO-- well, short of the CEO of
Fluor I haven't spoken with him. But the highest levels, and the chairman has talked to their
chairman a number of times. And so we are-DOUG TISDALE: Most recently this morning.
DAVE GENOVA: We are pushing hard, hard on that.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Other other matters that General Manager-- committee has
exhausted their right. Other matters that the General Manager wants to bring before us?
DAVE GENOVA: No, that's our matter, the organization.
DOUG TISDALE: I would say we've had a full and fair exchange, because I think we spent
about an hour on stuff other than the agenda. So that's cool. So I think we've had a chance to
exhaust things. And it's important because this is the last meeting of this Executive Committee.
So we stand at the will and the pleasure of the Board as newly constituted in January, relative to
who all will be sitting here.
So let me say, for the sake of this record, that whatever occurs, it has been my distinct privilege
and, I can say, pleasure to work with all of you. And I include Director Deadwyler in that. She
has just communicated to me that she's actually not feeling well, and she indicates she will not be
there this evening. So I would for the sake of the record that we're making here like expressly to
include Director Deadwyler in that statement on my part that it's been a privilege working with
you all.
JUDY LUBOW: Ditto.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Thank you very much.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, it was a fun ride.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's been great.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. If there is no further business, then we, ladies and gentleman, will
stand adjourned.

