February 11, 2020
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
JEFF WALKER: --at July 1, 2020 would be a hang up in some other point in the future, after we
acquire the new software, well, I guess when we're going off RFP, knowing that would be a better
time.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
JEFF WALKER: Do you have a date or is it possible to give?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you know, Doug, when we'll be working on the selection of the
vendor, when the requirements will be done?
DOUG MACLEOD: We've got a draft of the requirements done at this point. So we have to go
find an implementation vendor. We're looking at fall this year to try to select an implementation
vendor that would do all the coordination with the actual software that we select. So there would
probably be about a six-month process working with that implementation vendor before we
actually start implementing the software itself, whichever software we choose.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Thank you. So Madam Chair, it sounds to me like the Finance department
isn't opposed to this. I'm wondering if the mover would consider changing the start date, the
implementation date for this to coincide with the acquisition upload, et cetera, installation of the
new software so that this could be done seamlessly and I'm sure for a lesser cost.
SHELLY COOK: I'll ask her that. She can respond or somebody could make a motion and we
could vote on that separately. But if you wish to comment, you're-- then let's move to-- we've got
several speakers.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So to be very clear, because this may be a little confusing for some in
the audiences, this motion is simply saying there is an extract done, export on data, which can be
currently done on Oracle, correct?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. This is Doug MacLeod. The only thing I would add, so this process to
create this report that you're asking for with the additional data is different than what we currently
provide, because there is additional data that's not available on Oracle. And that has to do with our
purchasing card. All of our purchasing card activity runs through Citibank.
So what happens, if I have a Citi, if I have a purchasing card, as an employee, and I purchase items,
I purchase those items with my card. All that activity gets recorded in Citibank. Then at the end of
the month I submit an expense report form to our accounting department laying out, here's what I
bought and here's where it should be coded.

So if you go into the general ledger, all you see is that expense, well you see it in the individual
accounts. What you're missing is some of the descriptions that would come through on the vendor
portion of Citibank. So what we're asking for these 64 hours is our business intelligence folks to
create a data warehouse that combine the two so we can provide each of the data elements that
you're asking for.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. OK. So to be very clear, what this motion is doing is saying either
in place of or in addition to the PDF, because this doesn't speak to getting rid of the PDF, that's
open. It's simply saying that we are also going to offer a comma separated value, for the commonly
folks out there, that means an Excel spreadsheet, OK, that includes these certain categories, which
are payee, date, check number, or EFT, et cetera.
That's all this motion is is just saying for somebody who wants more details, they would simply
go to our Reports and Policies page, probably, and they can download that spreadsheet. So the
whole talk about another platform in OpenGov or Socrates or one of these others, that's out in the
future. This is just a very simple, simple, low cost, simple measure that will provide more
transparency.
And one benefit I absolutely have to mention is it will include more information for potential
vendors to competitively bid in this District and to save us money. And just one of those will save,
could say $5,000 like that.
So that's what I wanted to clear up for you, Director Walker, that this motion right now, I do not
want to amend. I want to make sure it goes forward. Because the CSV, that gives them room.
Otherwise then I'm putting a date. It would turn around the other way, saying, now you've put a
burden on them, as soon as they get the software, they need to do this. And I don't want to do that.
The CSV is quite simple, to me, and a easy way for somebody to access the data. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Are you done, Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I appreciate Director Walker's comments. And it seems to me that since we are
going for another wholesale change of our system from the Oracle to the cloud that it would be
important to include this particular scope of work in that. And also, I understand from my
conversations that not only would we be able to get that information readily, but we could get so
much more if we go there.
So essentially, we will be going in that direction but that will not be until the end of 2021. So that's
roughly 22 months. And it seems to me that even though it would be a $5,000 throwaway, at that
point, that we are definitely under a microscope now to provide more transparency.

And so ordinarily I would be inclined to agree that we should postpone this until we do the
wholesale change. But in light of the fact that we really are trying to be more transparent now, I
think that a $5,000 throwaway in 22 months is probably acceptable to provide additional
information to the taxpayers today. So I will be in support of this motion.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And yeah, I just wanted to restate what you said about
these. The different platforms were simply an example of what other neighboring jurisdictions are
providing. It wasn't at all mentioned in the motion. It's just the $5,000 one-time cost for the CSV
macro, or whatever it ends up being.
But I did have someone recently, not too long ago, just a couple months ago, ask how much does
RTD spend on this particular service? I was like, gosh, I don't know. Because he happened to have
the business that provided that service. So I think are people that are interested in this kind of
detailed information. Thanks.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director, or Chair, well, no, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I want to echo the words of First Vice
Chair Catlin. I think those were well said. And I think it bears repeating, for the benefit of the
public, the media, and all, that RTD has been committed to transparency. And our Chief Financial
Officer, now Acting Interim General Manager, has done a fantastic job of ensuring and providing
transparency, along with Doug MacLeod, our Controller and others. And I want that understood.
And that the only thing that I hear from our staff at this point is information so that we can make
a truly informed decision and be aware that there is an additional cost but we are willing to absorb
that cost now for the reasons stated and articulated in Ms. Menten's video that she put up on
YouTube, which I understand is already under consideration for the Oscars for next year. Thank
you very much.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you, Director.
All right. No other speakers in the queue. I'd just add that I agree with the voices expressing support
for many of the same reasons. This is something we can do the near term, not overly expensive or
onerous. And we look forward to being able to do the greater things that we've seen on these other
websites and otherwise. And I'm glad that you're already starting to get your arms around what
that entails and you're setting up meetings, too, in terms of different budgeting tools.
So I just wanted to say thank you very much. You've been very busy and yet you're doing this as
well.
So if you would go ahead. We had a motion by Natalie Menten and a second by Kate Williams. If
you would go ahead and vote, once your option is up there.

OK. All votes are cast. We have 14 in favor and 1 opposed. That's Director Walker. Thank you
all.
We don't have any more recommended actions but we have several updates. The first is the General
Manager contract review. And just to make clear, this relates to the prior General Manager's
contract. But there is a requirement for a yearly update. So we can keep this very brief, is my guess,
and just offer up questions. So go ahead, gentlemen.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great. To keep it brief, this is Doug MacLeod, I will just introduce Matt
Marino. He is the partner that works on our audit from RubinBrown, our external auditor. I'd also
like to recognize Stephanie Simon and Max Haberkorn, who also worked on this project, as well
as the next update item. Matt?
MATT MARINO: Thank you. Thank you so much. As Doug said, we will keep it fairly brief
because this does relate to the prior General Manager. But as has been customary for us to come
in annually and update the Directors on the cost of the General Manager's contract.
This report was produced by looking at the original contract as well as the amended contract. And
we agreed all the data, the payroll data currently, as well as updated estimates of what the payout
for the 2020 through Mr. Genova's retirement date was.
And so the report was included in your packet and it was sent out earlier. So if there's specific
questions you'd like me to speak to, I could speak to specific questions, or I can go through the
report page by page. But it sounds like maybe specific questions is the preferred method.
SHELLY COOK: Yeah. I think we're good with just taking questions if needed. OK.
So I do have somebody in the queue. Director Menten, go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I ask this question because it came up in last year's presentation
and caught me after I was looking at it afterwards. So I'm on page 3.
MATT MARINO: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: The first paragraph, number 5.
MATT MARINO: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: And it is speaking to the pension. And towards the, it is the second to last
sentence within that paragraph and states, for presentation purposes, the contribution for the GM
has been estimated at 9% of wages in the absence of the availability as a per employee contribution.
So the question was, from a member of the public, just to ensure that Mr. Genova was only part of
the 9% pension package. I'm sorry, the defined benefit package, not also part of the defined
contribution package.

MATT MARINO: He was a participant in the salary defined benefit plan.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. And that was it.
MATT MARINO: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. So that was all I needed to just make sure we had on the
record. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Any other questions? We'll conclude that, except for I'm going to turn the
microphone over to Chair Rivera-Malpiede for comments on [INAUDIBLE].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Cook. I would just like to say that this evening,
the Board of Directors approved a contract for Mr. Ballard as the Agency's Interim Director and
CEO. And he will begin his role no later than February 26. And in addition, the Board approved
an annualized salary of $350,000 and customary RTD benefits, including relocation expenses, in
alignment with RTD's policy for executive management. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you very much. That was timely, given that we were just reviewing the
prior contract. I would note that the 350 is, by and large, and folks in our legal department can
elaborate, but that was all in. Because normally when you talk about a base salary, you carry in
added amounts. And that wasn't the case so much in this one.
OK. We have another update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, can I ask you a question?
SHELLY COOK: Sure.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. So is their expectation that we do a review
of the interim's contract with RubinBrown?
SHELLY COOK: For this year, you mean?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. Because that's what we would normally do. So if it was,
whether it was the Interim or the General Manager, we would need to do that review of that
contract. And our expectation is that's what we would be doing, based on this contract you just
signed. But I wanted to make sure that there was that understanding.
SHELLY COOK: Right. Go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Miss McKillop, it's a piece of this that we've not discussed at this
point. We will sit down and look at that, and if we could get back to you on that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. I just wanted to bring that up. Because there, that would be our
normal expectation to have to provide that to you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But I just wanted to,
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Duly noted. We will be getting that to you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Let me know.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Mr. MacLeod, do you stay up here for this one? We're going on to the 2019
Financial Audit, the auditor introductions.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Then please go.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair. Doug MacLeod here, and Matt Marino from RubinBrown
is still with me. He-BARBARA MCMANUS: You have a comment.
DOUG MACLEOD: Excuse me. Each year we do a-SHELLY COOK: Were you on the prior item?
NATALIE MENTEN: I wanted to follow up to Chair Rivera-Malpiede's.
SHELLY COOK: Forgive me. I didn't catch it
NATALIE MENTEN: No, that's no problem. So in that follow-up then, since the public may not
be aware of what is customary employee benefits, my question is, since we will be making some
small changes to the contract, whether that is now official public record? And will we be posting
it on our RTD-Denver.com website?
SHELLY COOK: Jenifer Ross-Amato?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Well, as soon as we get the final contract from our counsel and get it
signed, yes, we will make it publicly available.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. And if I could get a copy so I can post that on my website, please?
That would be wonderful. Thank you. Have it there just as a backup.
SHELLY COOK: And just introducing our new Interim General Counsel, Jenifer Ross-Amato.
We haven't formally welcomed you, but glad to have you.

JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: [INAUDIBLE].
SHELLY COOK: OK. So please continue with the introduction.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Doug MacLeod here. So Matt Marino is still here with us for the
second update item. And each year we like to bring our auditors in, our external auditors, before
we begin the real serious work on the Financial Audit for 2019, in this case. And so Matt has some
certain introductory comments that he'd like to make to the Board.
MATT MARINO: Thank you, Doug. So as Doug mentioned, we like to engage with the Directors
and get feedback when we're planning and performing our audit. We perform several different
reviews and audits of the financial information of the District. We do a financial statement audit.
So we're looking at the financial statements produced by District management.
We also do what's called a single audit or a federal expenditures audit. Because the District receives
federal expenditures, we do audit those federal expenditures and make sure they're being spent in
accordance with the agreements and federal regulations and we issue a report on that.
And then we also issue an agreed upon procedures report with regard to the National Transit
Database reporting. And so those three things will be occurring over the next several months. And
as part of this process, we like to engage the Directors and receive any feedback when we're
planning our procedures.
So are there any areas of interest or concern when you're looking either at financial operations or
entity reporting or anything like that that you'd like to bring to our attention before we engage in
our year-end fieldwork? We did do some initial planning back in October, but we want to receive
any additional feedback in our risk assessment process when planning our upcoming audit that
will happen in about a month.
DOUG MACLEOD: And I would also just like to add, you don't have to make that decision
tonight. Certainly we can discuss that. But Matt is also available if you'd like to contact him
directly. I can get his contact information to you.
SHELLY COOK: I think that'll be helpful. We haven't had a chance to really think that through, I
don't believe. But thank you for the offer.
Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So could you just give me your contact info now?
MATT MARINO: Yes. Best way to contact me is you can, phone or email preference for you?
NATALIE MENTEN: Both, please.
MATT MARINO: I can do a phone. 303-952-1221.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right.
MATT MARINO: And email is Matthew, M-A-T-T-H-E-W, dot, Marino, M-A-R-I-N-O, at
Rubin, R-U-B-I-N, Brown, like the color brown, dot com.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And Madam Chair, I'll put this in the Friday memo, also.
NATALIE MENTEN: One last question. You mentioned in your starter about the National Transit
Database.
MATT MARINO: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: What do you tie in to there?
MATT MARINO: We take the data that's reported as far as passenger miles and all that sort of
data, and we perform an agreed upon procedures whereby we understand how the data is collected
and then how it's reported to the National Transit Database, which ultimately has an impact on
how the District receives funding in the long term, because that's how the Federal Transit
Administration and Department of Transportation does dole out some funding.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. That's all the questions I have.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Nobody else in the queue. Thank you very much for both presentations.
Appreciate that.
MATT MARINO: Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: So we have an update on the Pilot Fare Program.
Bill Van Meter and Bill Sirois, welcome.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you. May I, Chair?
SHELLY COOK: Yes, please.
BILL VAN METER: So this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning. We're
here tonight to just give you a brief update on the progress that we're making on implementing the
Board's action from last November to implement a Promotional Fare Pilot Program for the N line.
Part of that due diligence on our part to make sure that we get that Promotional Fare Pilot program,
doesn't just roll off the tongue, sorry, implemented was to check with the Federal Transit
Administration, get their guidance, and make sure that we are running in accordance with their
rules, regulations, and guidance. And so that provided us some interesting insights. That's what's
presented and contained in this presentation. Bill Sirois is going to take you through that very
quickly. And then we'd like to engage in a little bit of discussion to hear any feedback or thoughts
the Board might have based on the information that he will present. So Bill.

BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Bill. Again, this is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit-oriented
Communities.
A little bit of background, I'm not going to go over this, but this kind of outlines what was in what
was passed by the Board in November, in terms of resolution for the PFPP pilot for the N line.
You know, based upon that, we reached out to FTA just for some guidance in the areas that are on
the screen there, but really understanding, since we have not done a promotional fare to date, what
are the rules of the road from FTA standpoint.
So in talking with them and getting their guidance, we did uncover some flexibility and some
different options. So the three options that we have shown here outline what they had said that are
feasible under the pilot program. In terms of the first, which is kind of as is, in terms of what we
had-- what was originally proposed in the Board action, which is moving forward with the N line
by itself, as proposed.
The second option is a little bit more robust, in terms of moving forward with the N line and other
corridors, which we would have to determine what those corridors would be at the same time. FTA
said that that would be allowed under the promotional fare pilot if we did things concurrently,
Then the third one, which I know is one, I think, that was discussed with the Board, which was
what I call the rolling pilot, whereas there is a six-month period with the N line and there would
be another six months on other corridors. So FTA did review that and said that would more than
likely require, for equity analysis, kind of before initiating any corridors beyond the N line.
So we wanted to present to you a pro and con of each alternative and get some feedback. Because
obviously, initially we need to start working on some things associated with implementing the
pilot fare. So we kind of wanted to have some discussion with the Board in terms of what the
options are and the preferences.
So just in terms of some pros and cons. Obviously, with the N line only, it's something that's
already adopted. It does have the lowest potential for lost revenue, from our perspective, in terms
of we're only focused on the one line. But there is, and this is a case with any option that we have,
there is a potential for a Title VI action, meaning that under Title VI, just because we are in the
promotional fare pilot, there is still potential for somebody to come and say there is a violation of
their civil rights. And we can still do that. That's kind of under any condition.
Option two, the N line plus other corridors being done concurrently. Obviously this is a more
robust sample size than just the one corridor. Obviously as a result of that, we think there'd be
broader [INAUDIBLE] of support. And FTA, this is one thing which was new to us, in terms of
reaching out to them, was the idea that this was OK to do. But this does result in a higher loss of
revenue. And we would have to determine how we would select other corridors.
I think FTA did, in our conversations with them, make it clear that they would want to have some
sort of criteria associated with how corridors were selected. It is more complicated to implement.
Expanding it beyond one corridor does make it more complicated, from preparing for a fare change

and how that is done. And again, similar to the one before, there is potential for a Title VI action
of this without a fare equity analysis.
And lastly, we call the rolling corridors alternative. Again, broader stakeholder support. This one,
where we would do a Title VI analysis upfront. And you know, the idea here is that you would
want to do that to understand what some of the implications are. Again here, another higher
revenue loss than the original proposal. And again, potential for a Title VI finding, meaning that
there could be a finding during the analysis. We don't know. We haven't done it yet. So that is just
a potential risk out there that we wanted to make the Board is aware of.
So with that, we just wanted to highlight some of the next steps, which is to get some direction and
feedback from the Board on the options tonight. But as with any fare change, there are several
steps that we have to go through. One of the ones that's probably more imminent is developing a
communications plan, looking at changing how we're going to change all of our information,
trailblazer, everything else, getting information to the general public about it.
There are other things more on the operational side, in terms of training our fare inspectors. Those
come a little bit later but still are necessary.
So that just gives you a sense of the next steps and what we have to do to get there. I do not have
costs for some of these things tonight. And we can get those to you in terms of some of those. But
we can get those to you for your consideration after the meeting.
And with that, we will open it up to questions.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Directors, any questions about the three options? Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Cook. Mr. Sirois, what kind of impact on the cost of para
transit to the eligible people using para transit just on the pilot for the North line, what would that
be? And you may not have that information right now. But I would be curious to know.
BILL SIROIS: We'll get that for you and get back to you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK.
Thank you, Director Folska. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for this update. It's encouraging that from what we learned when
we initially passed the N line pilot program. What I'm wondering-- this is very encouraging that
we could do either option two or three, which is what some of us were pushing for, and even told
our stakeholders that this might happen. But I was a little bit nervous that we might be over
promising. So this is great news.

And I would suggest that if we did a rolling program or-- I wouldn't advocate for a wholesale
program, just because of the revenue loss potential. But if we could do a rolling program and select
corridors and get actual data on ridership and that kind of thing, that it could really help in some
of the-- well, like in my area, the Evergreen to Conifer route, or the 116X, which are all regional
fares. And if we could look at some, or other examples, to see if we could boost ridership, I think
that would be great.
So I'm encouraged. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Since you don't have a baseline, you don't have any data on the
N line because it's not open, it's going to be difficult to determine what impact this fare proposal
would have. So did you think about maybe doing two different lines, one existing line where you
would have some base case that you could compare so that we would know something after we
complete this exercise?
Because I don't know if we just do the N line whether we'll really know whether it's effective or
not to increase ridership. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Any comment?
BILL VAN METER: Chair, may I?
SHELLY COOK: Go ahead, Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. So the intent with the N line is that at the
end of the six-month period, we would be required to reinstitute, or institute, the regional fare
consistent with our fare policy. So at the end of the six-month period, we will then see, kind of in
reverse, what the impacts would be.
BOB BROOM: How many quit riding?
BILL VAN METER: You may quit riding because the cost is higher. Or you may have discovered
that it's a very reliable service and that you're willing to pay a higher amount. And we'll be able to
track where patrons go, at least in terms of how utilization at different stations changes, as well as
where they park.
And so we are basing our before and after analyses on that presumption that we will be required
to re-- or not re, I keep wanting to say reinstate-- but instate a regional fare at that point. However,
if the Board wanted to consider a program similar to what you just described, where we also looked
at an existing corridor, it may behoove us to do it at the same time as we're doing the N line. That
would be option two as presented tonight. Simply because it would, we believe and we understand
from our guidance from FTA, forego the need for an equity analysis if we do it concurrently.

Recall, if we did it in a rolling fashion, as was posited by many Board members last fall, it would
likely require us to do equity analyses before we implement each one. If the equity analysis shows
a disparate or disproportionate impact, then we would need to figure out how to mitigate that or
we would not be able to proceed with future ones.
There's also cost, time, and effort involved in doing equity analyses. So that's what is potentially
interesting to you with this option number two. There are potential issues, as well, as Mr. Sirois
noted, in terms of exposure to Title VI actions under any of these.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you for that clarification. Mr. Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. So I would think three is what, is you're saying that we would
need to do a Title VI, whereas the other two there may be negative Title VI consequences if we
don't anyway. But three, we would definitely do that.
BILL SIROIS: That's correct.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I'm just wondering, I mean, on some level, the more the merrier. But I would
imagine it could be very complicated. And I'm wondering what the staff feels about two, if they
have the resources to do more than the pilot project as we set up.
SHELLY COOK: Mr. Van Meter or Mr. Sirois? Or Heather McKillop, Miss McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sorry, I'm over here. This is Heather McKillop. So there's several
resource issues. One would be the financial resources that we might lose in this process. And the
other would be the implementation of multiple corridors at one time.
And so based on the feedback we get tonight, we'd like to take that back, digest it, and maybe look
at the resource issues, both from a human resource as well as a financial resource, and then bring
that back to you next month. And then you guys can digest that further and see if that leads you to
a different conclusion than where you started back in November.
We wanted to present this tonight because it is slightly different than what we expected and what
you might have expected, and so wanted to give you the opportunity to look at that. And then,
based on the comments we get from everyone tonight, we'll take that back, look at some
alternatives, bring back more information for you next month so that might better inform a
decision.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Thank you. Can I continue a little bit? Just, because I think we were
thinking about number three anyway. And it seems to me, why not look at the additional cost,
because it might be-- I know the stakeholders would really love more rather than less of this
creative funding issue. So that's what I would suggest.

But I wouldn't necessarily vote for it if it turns out to be very expensive. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. With regard to the option two, would you have to
identify specific corridors or could you potentially move the fare zone, expand the zone, and that
way pick up these lines that have orphan stations and more than just one-- Did you want to
respond?
SHELLY COOK: Yes, please.
BILL VAN METER: May I? Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning.
VINCE BUZEK: Please, yeah. Thanks.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah. So that would certainly be a rational approach that I would suggest
that we would want to look at. That is to say right now we have four zones, four fare zones, A, B,
C, and airport. Travel between any two, excluding airport, any two zones is a local fare. Traveling
between any three zones is a regional fare.
If we were to expand the B-- and they're concentric circles out from Denver Union Station. If we
were to expand the radius of Zone B consistently out throughout the region, that would be a
significant revenue loss, likely. Our guesstimate last fall was in the $4 million range for half a year,
$8 million for a full year. And in discussions I've had with Heather, she believes that guesstimate
is probably on the low side. That's what we would be working on preparing for your edification
and for your information next month.
But I would propose that would be one of the more equitable approaches, rather than picking and
choosing individual corridors, to consistently do a test of that style. And so that would be one of
the approaches that I would propose, presenting to you next month in more detail, pros and cons.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. And if I may continue. So when you talk about the revenue loss, that
again presumes that the reduction of fare does not result in an increase in ridership to offset the
loss of the higher fare. Is that right?
BILL VAN METER: No, it doesn't-- Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager Planning-- it
does assume the elasticity of demand observed for the region from our last fare studies. So it does
assume that there would be a ridership response, a positive ridership response.
Of course, ridership demand is relatively inelastic in this region, and for transit basically in North
America. And so those forecasts do say there will be more ridership with the lower fare, but not
enough to overcome, from a financial standpoint, the lost revenue. But all of that is, in theory,
taken into account in our projections.

VINCE BUZEK: And there's been discussion of potential service cuts coming up sometime soon.
And if we vote on that as a Board to move that forward, what kind of savings will we realize from
not running the routes that are proposed to be cut?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: What does that look like? $12 million?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. Yes, for the base system, we're estimating at
around $10 million, and for FasTracks, around $2 million to $2.5 million.
VINCE BUZEK: Just a thought. Thanks. That's all I had.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm wondering if we kept track of what happened in 2015 when we
lowered the fares for the regional system. Do you know if we have that anywhere? And if we could
look at that to see what happened.
And what I'm thinking of is the Southwest line, the last few stations are in the regional zone.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, we can definitely go back and look at that.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I think that would be interesting. I think it would be hard to identify the
impacts on just one line, how it would affect the system. Because it's not a-- I do not know what
the word is. But it's the observation on that one is separate from any other one, because that one
line is just that one line. And it's-- anyway.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Insignificant.
JEFF WALKER: You know what I'm trying to say. And I think I heard you say that you'll come
back to us with A cost of printing the materials, updating the software, et cetera, for each-- if we
would do the rolling one. And also what it would be for-- well, I guess we already know that, what
it is when we have a fare change every three years. I said fare change, not fare increase, because
we change our fares.
So I guess when I voted for this originally a few months ago, I did it with hesitation. I'm still not
in favor of this program because there are the people out there who won't benefit from a discount,
like everybody who's in a local fare. They won't get a discount, right, only people in a regional
fare. That might be part of that Title VI, I would imagine.
So I'll wait and see what you come back with. But I'm looking at the presentation, I'm starting to
get nervous about this, along with the financial hit. We'd have to not just make up riders, we'd have
to pretty much double the ridership, 60% or something like that increase over what's there now to
make up the dollars, to make up the dollars that we would lose from the fare reduction.

So anyway, OK, thank you. Thank you very much for the info. Appreciate it. That's all. Thanks.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you, Director Walker.
Director Folska. Can I ask Director Tisdale if he has a comment here?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I haven't actually made a comment yet.
SHELLY COOK: Oh, forgive me.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. I was just wondering, maybe Director Walker was referring to
statistically insignificant, because you just have one line and how you can extrapolate from that to
generalize throughout the entire system.
But I was wondering if, given SB 151, and they're going to, they're hoping, I guess, or removing
that requirement that 20% of the fare box, just that whole formula be removed. I mean, it seems to
me that it's possible that we could be charging nothing, sort of like in Kansas City, right? It's free
now. But they have other regions. And so it's free in a certain area, but then you're going to have
to pay when you get outside of that area. And I know that Denver City and County is very keen to
do some innovative work. And I'm wondering how that might all fit together.
But when you're doing your overall analysis, are you taking into account the fact that maybe some
people on the Board are aware or not aware that increased ridership is positively correlated with
decrease in gas, increase in gas price, increased ridership, right?
BILL VAN METER: Correct.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And right now, it's pretty low. But you know, with the Corona virus, maybe
it's going to go up again. I don't know. That has an economic impact. There's so many different
things. That's a little cynical.
So can you comment about the gas price and maybe some people-- I mean, you could make
everything free, and gas is so low, nobody is going to take advantage of it. You know what I'm
saying? So you got a lot of variables that you're trying to juggle, and it's time sensitive. And there's
a lot of other factors that go into account for this. So how are you going to control for that to-BILL VAN METER: Yeah, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. There are a number of other
variables, as well. Our service levels and our service changes, whether they're large or small,
because there is an elasticity related to levels of service and varying passenger response to that as
well.
We'll do our best to look at where gas prices were during the six-month trial period and then where
they are afterwards. We'll do our best to also estimate if there were any kind of direct service level
impacts or other impacts that we can observe. But as you're very aware, it's an inexact science at
best. And the primary variable, however, that will be changing will be the fare. And so it will be
primarily, whatever response there is will be primarily attributable to that.

But we will take a look at some of those other key variables, as you noted. That makes a lot of
sense.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Exactly, what if we had no fare? It would only cost $150 million, right? If
it was free, everything?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It's $162 million.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. It would be-- I think it's important for the record to show we could
make RTD free for everybody in the District and it would only cost $162 million a year to
someone. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you very much. And Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I am personally delighted to see that the
FTA is open to this. When we came up with this proposal, it was considered something that would
be extremely problematic with the FTA. And now to have an indication that these two additional
options would be OK is fantastic.
I have to tell you, I mean, seeing it used along the Southeast corridor, where we have six stations
that are impacted by this, the Southwest corridor, where there are two stations that are impacted
this, the W line, where there is one station that's impacted by this, I mean, we have history there.
So we'll know. We have, the Southeast line is the busiest rail line that we have. And we have
history. And we will know, by doing this, do we create even greater demand for that?
The R line might be very dramatic. A line that has been anemic in terms of its ridership numbers
might, in fact, be quite strong. And I have to tell you, at this particular point in time, looking at all
the issues that we are addressing with the N line and with everything else that we face, I think
being able to go out with a plan that would be system wide might be one of the best things that we
ever chose to do.
So I'm delighted. And I personally am in favor of option two. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I have a few questions.
The first question is in the pros and cons for option two, it says the FTA indicates that this approach
would be OK. Can you tell me a little bit more about that?
BILL SIROIS: Well, the question, we asked the question about guidance for how we would
implement a fare on the N line. And they said, you could do this concurrently with other corridors,
with a six-month limit on that fare. And that would be OK under their promotional fare guidance.
So that was their specific feedback to us on the implementation of the N line fare.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. A few more questions here for you all.

You mentioned a criteria for selection to determine which of the corridors. What criteria did you
all have in mind?
BILL SIROIS: You know, we wanted feedback tonight to understand where the Board was going,
if there was an interest in a specific direction. And then we could go back and talk about what that
criteria would be and come back to you next month.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I'm curious as to how this, with-- I'm constantly trying to make the
connections between what we're doing now and how that fits into Reimagine RTD. And so if you
all could speak to that, I'd appreciate it.
BILL SIROIS: The thing that we said, I think, and we said this, we are not specifically addressing
fares in Reimagine in terms of looking at if we change fares are we doing the flat fares, are we
doing special programs? We're not doing that in terms of what the impact is on ridership.
What I think that we've said that we may discuss in Reimagine is overall approach to fares that
may impact how we approach from a fiscal policy standpoint and from other standpoints, from a
higher level. We could have a discussion as, for instance, about whether we do fare increases over
three years or some things like that that may be part of the discussion. But I don't think we were
ever intending to do any modeling associated with if you changed fares in this way, here would be
the impact on ridership.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's helpful to know.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, can I address that, though?
SHELLY COOK: Yes, please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm going to do a quick plug for some upcoming meetings, workshops.
So not as part of Reimagine but separately, due to the requests we've had over the last several
months at looking at flat fares, at looking at reduced fares, at looking at not doing fare increases
in 2022 and 2025 in our mid-term financial plan. We will be having a workshop. It's in your twoweek calendar. Only it's not two weeks. It's longer than that.
On March 10th we have a workshop from 3:30 to-- I think it's from 3:00 to 5:00, or 3-- it's in there.
And then in that one we'll be discussing the purpose of fares, why we charge fares, the elasticity
or inelasticity of fares, those type of things at that first meeting. And then in April we'll actually
have modeled scenarios on a, not a free fare, but if you went to a flat fare, if you went to a flat fare
and an airport fare, if you went to a fare by mode. So you had a different fare for bus, which is
traditionally more local, light rail, which traditionally more regional, and then commuter rail,
which might be more considered a higher fare. So we'll be looking at that then at the April
workshop that we're going to be having.
So I just wanted to do that plug for those meetings coming up. Those will then feed not only the
Reimagine discussion, depending on where the Board wants to go with that and how formal we

want to take that, but it'll also feed into our account-based ticketing conversion that we're going to
be doing in 2020 and 2021.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So that leads me to two questions that I have here, and you might want answer
these, Heather.
For each of these options, how are we considering our fare revenue targets? And what's the impact?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So what we're comparing them to is what our estimates will be,
forecasted, if we did those fare increases and kept it as is, and then what ridership in those fare
forecasts would look like if we made these adjustments.
SHONTEL LEWIS: For these options specifically?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's helpful. And so you mentioned rail and bus. Are we considering
any of these options that we would include any bus routes in the consideration of corridors?
BILL SIROIS: That is one option that I think we could do, under either, under option two. You
could even look at a different fare. You could look at the local fare. That is, I think that is allowed
under there. But I think that we'd have to certainly look at that and get into more analysis of staff.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And I think you all talked about the A line. So of course, I have to say
let's not discount the A line. We have workers who travel to the airport. And so I think let's not
disregard it. We should at least consider it.
And then finally, I was very vocal about not wanting to support this because I thought it created
inequities. And my position doesn't change. And in fact, I would be more supportive of option
three because it requires us first to do an equity analysis. And I would prefer that we know what
the burdens or the disparate impact could potentially be prior to implementing and not learning
that after. Because it's people's lives that we would be impacting. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director Guissinger. And then I hope to wrap up pretty
quickly after Director Menten. OK, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis answered one of my questions, which is that we're talking
buses and trains. So when we talk a corridor, we could be talking a particular line, one or the other,
and not the whole corridor. Is that right?
Just an observation. The idea of expanding the B circle would leave out some of the examples like
Director Catlin gave that are regional but aren't Denver centric. I'm not saying I'm against it. I like
looking at number two. I learned yesterday, or I learned a few days ago, I guess, that DRCOG is
looking at what free fares would look like. And I think that's really interesting. It's nice somebody
else is looking at that for us.

And I guess I would encourage, this is also a time to think about pass programs. For instance, what
Director Lewis was saying, you know, free fares could be great, but they also could have a lot of
problems. But pass programs that put people on buses and give people something more for their
money are also a great way to go. And if we can work out a way to take care of the equity issues
and to expand it everywhere, I think it could be a real income source for RTD.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Two of the previous speakers mentioned what my question mostly was,
was whether regional routes for bus. I think about the Evergreen, the 116X. Do we need to request
right now special that that be considered? Because I don't know what you came into the room
considering. And you've heard it now from a couple Directors. But is that just automatically a part
of the plan to consider those and do the pricing and all of the effects and all of that?
BILL VAN METER: Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. So there are potentially many dozens of
iterations. And we don't have the time or resources to do all of those. But we can make some broad
based assumptions. So expanding Zone B, for example, likely would expand-- making this up-it's currently about 9 and 1/2 mile radius circle, making it 11 or 12 miles. On the Flatiron Flyer
route, what impact would that have and which stations would be impacted? On the West corridor,
on North I-25, on bus services into the mountains, where might those lines change?
For most of the Foothills routes, that sort of change isn't going to impact the fare. Because those
runs are significantly longer. So we could then take a look at what the impact would be in an
isolated case on one or two additional routes, I'm positing, sitting here right now, without kind of
breaking our analytical capacity.
So if you're following that direction, that's what I'm thinking I'm hearing from the Board. So the
answer is a qualified yes, we would be able to look at some of those variations.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Just in summary, I wouldn't want corridor to only mean rail.
BILL VAN METER: Understood. And yeah, the Flatiron Flyer, North I-25, the pricing for those
corridors and for all our services generally follow the same A, B, C distance space boundary. That
is not a rail specific, or mode specific. It's a distance application that is applied pretty consistently
among our premium bus services as well as rail.
So not local services. You can ride long distance on a local bus if the local bus goes that distance
on a local fare. But for our premium, nonstop, closed door-type service, commuter-type services,
we use the same kind of A, B, C zone for the bus services as well.
SHELLY COOK: So if I may, right here, just to try to help us wrap up-- and I will get back to you.
I wanted to see if what we're talking about is getting more information about option two and
including, perhaps, increasing zone B, and coming back with information that relates to, for
example, how does that affect bus service, as well, the regional routes, as well, and looking at,
considering that it's a one-time cost, looking at how we might fund that. So including, potentially,

although we're not saying this is where we want to go at this point, using the service cuts, if they
are approved.
BILL VAN METER: Chair, that's how I am understanding the discussion.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Go ahead, Director Menten. And then Director Lewis, yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So this is a lot of deja vu. 2015, talking about distance versus time
versus flat. Maybe hopefully some of that modeling and that all that work that Lac-- was it Lacy
Bell?
BILL VAN METER: Lacy Bell.
NATALIE MENTEN: --put into that. And I'll dig through my old archive emails, try and dig some
of this up. But hopefully some of that has kind of been laid out.
And then last item is if we did touch on one of the DTP lines, would that require any substantial
contract modifications?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. As it relates to fare, no. Because fares are within the
control of the RTD on the fares.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Now if it generates a lot more traffic as far as passengers, we will have
an issue there, because we're at capacity for rail cars. So that would be something we'd have to
take into consideration. But as far as just setting the fare, that is within the purview of RTD.
SHELLY COOK: We just doubled those. Are we actually already at capacity on the doubled
consist?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that's as largest consist as we can get [INAUDIBLE] planner-BILL VAN METER: Clarification. Bill Van Meter. So those trains generally aren't at capacity in
terms of passenger load. But we cannot expand the length of them to add additional. So if there is
additional response beyond their capacity, we don't have the capacity to carry the additional
passengers.
SHELLY COOK: Thanks for that clarification. OK. Director Menten, may I move on to Director
Lewis?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you. Go ahead. And then we'll finish up, if that's OK.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just want to clarify. Bill, in your example you were
expanding zone A into B or B into C?
BILL VAN METER: B into C.
SHONTEL LEWIS: What would it look like to expand A into B? And why not consider that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: May I clarify? And that's to make the local bigger, right, is what you're
saying? OK.
BILL VAN METER: Well, travel between any two zones is still local. So-HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think she's saying travel between three zones would be a local. And
outside of that would be something more.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's what she's-BILL VAN METER: That would be a flat fare then.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It would get close to a flat fare.
BILL VAN METER: That would devolve to a flat fare.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Close to it. I just want to know all the scenarios.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: With limited regional.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just want to know all the scenarios. If you all are going to come back with
considerations that the Board should think about, I would personally like to think about that,
maybe.
BILL VAN METER: Got it.
BILL SIROIS: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And then I would, just to clarify, Director Cook, I am one Director who is
actually in support of option B, because I believe that we should not know that people may be
experiencing harm based on our decisions after the fact, but I'd prefer to know that before we make
a decision. That is all.
SHELLY COOK: Great. OK. Are you good in terms of direction? And thank you all very much
for all your good thinking in that.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you.

SHELLY COOK: OK, we have, quickly, a quarterly investment report. This is one we might be
able to handle with just questions. OK, Mr. MacLeod, we're getting good at that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair. Doug MacLeod here. I'm joined by Brenden Morgan, our
Senior Manager of Debt and Investments. And yes, questions would be great.
SHELLY COOK: So following the good example of Director Williams when she chairs a meeting,
I'm hoping that we've all looked at, and read in detail, all the returns. So, any questions? OK. Go
ahead, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just had one question. Looking at packet
page 28, I noticed that we've got just over 1-- almost 2% invested with Toyota Motor Credit Corp.
I understand Freddie Mae, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and some of the other ones. But I was
just curious, how did we get into that investment?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Good question. This is Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and
Investments.
We own a handful of corporate credits, generally, in the portfolios. At year-end, I think we had
about five. We owned Toyota, Exxon, Walmart, Apple, and Johnson & Johnson, I believe were
the five that we owned, that you'll see in this report that we owned at the end of the year.
Typically we do own some corporate credits. They pay a little bit of a spread above what we can
earn in Treasuries and some of the agencies, like you mentioned, like Fannie Mae and Farmer Mac,
et cetera. So they're all AAA-rated short-term corporate credits that pay a little bit extra than what
we can earn on the federal securities.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Sure.
SHELLY COOK: Good to know. Any other questions?
OK. Then we're on to the 2019 monthly financial status report, please, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair. You each should have a handout at your place. We did
receive sales and use taxes yesterday. I'll just go through those very briefly.
So you can see from the arrows, our year-to-date numbers, when you look at each of our items,
sales and use tax, ridership, and fare revenue, we fell short of budget by just a little bit. But that
continues the trend that we've seen all year.
Good news is we had a really good month in December. So our sales and use taxes, we had a really
good month there where we were up 4% over budget, which resulted in a year-to-date increase
over last year of 4%, or $25 million more than last year but $3 million short of budget, which is
pretty darn good when you think about a $662 million budget. We were only short by $3 million.

Ridership continues on the same trends that we've seen, down 6/10 of a percent, mostly from bus.
And then fare revenue we were short of budget by 5.2%, largely as a result of the lower ridership.
One thing I would add is that these are unaudited preliminary financials. So while these dashboard
numbers won't change for ridership, sales and use tax, and fare revenue, the income statement
numbers will change as we go through the audit process and true things up and reconcile for the
year. So we will come back in May with the audited financials. So you'll see a little bit of a change.
And I'd be happy to take any questions now.
SHELLY COOK: Director Broom, go ahead.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Am I right in reading this that ridership is up 4/10 of 1%?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can you repeat the question?
BOB BROOM: Yes, I'll repeat it. Am I correct that ridership went up 4/10 of 1% for the entire
year? So this reverses the trend that we were on where ridership has been down year by year by
year?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, correct. The one thing I would say is that we did have an opening with
the G line mid-year. So when you're comparing year over year, it's difficult to compare without
looking at the ridership worksheet that breaks it down by-BOB BROOM: But we can say that for 2019, ridership was up over 2018.
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct, yes.
BOB BROOM: OK.
SHELLY COOK: We'll take it. We'll take it.
BOB BROOM: Then the other thing-- the other.
SHELLY COOK: OK, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I just want you to say that again, that ridership in 2019
was, in fact, up over 2018. Because remember, the footnote that you add is also in the media all
the time saying, despite opening new lines, they've lost riders. You can now say, with the opening
of new lines, we have increased riders. Am I correct?
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. No more questions.
[LAUGHTER]

SHELLY COOK: Spoken like an attorney. OK, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair, I have a question about ridership by line, which is on page 47.
What interests me is that we have some lines that have significant decrease. And is there some way
to inform us why particular lines did so badly whereas others did not?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. And there's different situations for each one of those lines, obviously.
So for instance, when the G line opened, that had some impact on the B line. It would be difficult
to measure what that impact is, because we don't know which riders may have shifted between the
two. Some of the others are due to service changes throughout the year.
But if there was one in particular that you're particularly interested in, we could probably dig down.
I would need Service Planning's help investigating those variances.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I'm just interested in the ones that had almost 18%. I guess that was L line.
SHELLY COOK: The L line.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather. Can I just speak to that one? I think one thing to keep
in mind on that particular one that has the 17.8%, look at the ridership. In 2018, it was 841,000.
And then it went down to 692,000. So it still carries a significant amount of passengers for that
very short line that it is, the L line. But it shows a very large percentage because the numbers are
so small compared to some of the other rider [INAUDIBLE]. So you got to keep that in mind, too,
of looking what that comparison from year to year is.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Did any of those larger number declines raise a red flag?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So this is Heather again. So as we mentioned earlier in the year,
we've been monitoring this pretty carefully. Because we had seen some quite large decreases on
light rail, and we've been able to recover most of this. The L line decrease is very similar to what
it was earlier in the year. So that really hasn't changed over the year's period of time, that decrease.
Some of the others have actually done much better in the second half of the year than we did in
the first half of the year. So we have been actively monitoring those and looking at potential
reasons. We're still looking at the fact that perhaps our performance issues on light rail has
contributed to some of the loss in ridership more recently.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much.
SHELLY COOK: Any other questions? Natalie Menten. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: What is our ETA on getting our subsidy report for the year?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So our goal is to have that completely out and to the Board by July 1st,
actually June 1st, for the report, July 1st, right?

DOUG MACLEOD: Correct. June for the subsidy report, and then the county allocation is planned
for July.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
SHELLY COOK: OK, that looks like it for this item. And we have one more. Shall we just plow
through on the LiVE program, get a very quick update on that, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure. Doug MacLeod. The LiVE program, so we've included this in your
package Monika Treipl-Harnke is available, too, if you have specific questions. But we basically
just updated the statistics that you see there as of Monday of last week. So we're a little over 3,600
LiVE applications approved. That's going along well.
The one thing I would add that's not on here is we had a productive discussion last week with
Denver Human Services about providing a roving helper to go around and help folks at different
locations apply for the program. And then I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might
have.
SHELLY COOK: We do have a couple. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Cook.
Thank you, Doug. So aside from the roving helper, is that what you called it?
DOUG MACLEOD: Do we have an official term for that, Heather? No. It's a person that would
work for DHS, an employee of theirs that we would pay for, but that person would be at specific
locations, designated locations at different times of the week.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Why don't we do-- like somebody from our own team? Why are we hiring
someone from DHS to do that when we have so many people here?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you want me to answer that questions? So we don't have the expertise
in social services and the PEAK system. DHS does. That's what they do for a living. And they
assist people every day in applying for PEAK and our services. But they do it all at their particular
office. So what this would provide is that same level of expertise, but at different locations.
Because that is the feedback we've been getting is that we would like people to be able to go not
down to Denver Human Services or Boulder Human Services but to get help at rather, say, the
public library on Tuesday morning or a homeless shelter on Wednesday afternoon or something
like that.
But we do not have that expertise in-house.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm really confused about that. So do you think that I would be able to fill
that out? Can I fill out the PEAK thing myself? I mean, do you think I am competent to do that on
my own?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, I think you are. But there are some people that are not.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, no, no, no, no. Let me finish where I'm headed with this. So I would
say our own staff is probably competent enough to fill it out themselves. So why wouldn't they be
able to teach or help somebody who needs help?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: They could potentially do that piece of it. What we don't want them
exposed to is HIPAA information or other information that our people are not bonded or insured
to deal with.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And DHS is?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. That is what they do for a living.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And you have to show HIPAA medical information to qualify for these
PEAK services?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Potentially, yes. If you want to use your Medicaid card or something
else to qualify, then that is the information. Or you may be giving them financial information if
you want somebody to help you assist. So we just felt that we didn't want to put ourselves in that
position when we had the expertise with Denver Human Services to do that already. And they're
trained in how to ask those questions and request that information.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And how much do we pay them for that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't think we've come to an agreement on that. But as a person per
year, what do you think, Monika, that we-- do you know off the top of your head? Or we can get
back with that.
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Monika Treipl-Harnke, Senior Manager of Revenue. I think we're
looking at about a $50,000 a year salary, plus then the fringes and overhead.
So I mean, I do want to add, because we talked about what that would be called. It's actually, they
call it an outreach coordinator. They have a department that that's what they do. And this person
would be hired from that department with some experience with working with the populations that
we have in mind, especially the people who have the highest barriers. So there is some expertise
that comes with it, not just with filling out an application but the people skills and soft skills that
are included that a human services trained worker would be best at.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And if I might add, we're looking at doing that within our existing
budget constraints that we have for the project.

SHELLY COOK: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, yeah, I'm sorry. I really struggle with these kinds of expenditures,
you know. I just think it's kind of ridiculous. I think we should be able to take someone from any
one of our departments, like sales, and certainly communications, to give them the added expertise
and bonding them. And it would be far less than $50,000 plus all these other fringe things. And I
know that our people, our staff have all the human skills that they need to interact with people. I
mean, that's what we do. We have people skills all day long here.
So I'm sorry. I'm disappointed. But anyway, this idea of marketing, I think we do need to do more
outreach in marketing and advertising. And you know, there's public service announcements we
could be doing. And I'm wondering what has the communications department done for going out
and doing proper sales and marketing of these and other past programs, quite frankly?
SHELLY COOK: I think we're going to be getting an update on that, aren't we?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, that kind of goes-- yeah, but it goes, you know, it slides in to that
whole thing.
And frankly, since I've been on this Board, that's been an issue. So I'd love to see that get resolved.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you very much. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. This is a program, you guys know, that's near and dear to
me for a long time now. And I have also been hearing some things about we're not doing what we
could be doing. And I think the point then that I have been hearing is that people believe that it is
our program, when I think, in part, it's a partnership with the community. And so I'd like to see the
community do more to promote the program.
But I think we have all heard that it's hard. Director Folska's right, that the application is
complicated and difficult. And that's not because of us. That's because of the PEAK program that
has all kinds of other benefits, including housing benefits, food stamps, and all of those things.
That's what makes the HIPAA issues and makes the thing hard to do.
But I'm wondering, so people come in here to this building. And we have a department where they
get special cards, right, on the ground floor by the back door? Can you go there to get a LiVE card?
SHELLY COOK: Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. This is Heather. No, you have to apply online, and it will be sent to
you through the mail. And the reason for that is sheer volume. We don't have the staffing to be
able to accommodate the volume for that.
KATE WILLIAMS: For the LiVE application.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: For the LiVE application, or I was speaking specifically about being
able to pick up or get your LiVE card at that time, if you're approved.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. But the problem that we're talking about now is that not enough people
are applying for it. So we're like in a Catch-22. So if we help make the application easier and have
more outreach, then we can't keep up with the demand?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. I'm sorry if I wasn't clear. So the program was never designed for
people to become able to come into this building and pick up their LiVE card, their discount card,
like other discount cards. We are encouraging, just like we are in our other discount programs, to
apply for that online. And then they can either pick them up or get mailed to us for our other
discount cards.
The amount of people that just even to date, what, we're up to, what, 3,500, 3,600 people. That
would be a huge burden on the people here to be able to address that. We'd have to add additional
staff. And so rather than do that, it was more economical to mail those out, based on who's
approved through the PEAK application process.
Now if we want additional assistance here for people to be able to come here to fill out their
application, then we can look at that with the worker that we're anticipating being a kind of roving
person could be here one day a week, too. The issue with this building is it's not very accessible
and it's not very easy to get to. So we felt that that would actually be a hindrance than a help to
most people.
KATE WILLIAMS: So one of the suggestions that I heard was that we do it at Civic Center and
that we allow people to go there. And I think this roving worker would be-- roving worker, is that
what I just-- the moon lander.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: An outreach, outreach coordinator. [INAUDIBLE] sorry. That sounds
so much better. Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That working title, the roving [INAUDIBLE].
KATE WILLIAMS: Just to think about possibly having that person one day a week at one of our
facilities. And the other suggestion that was brought to me that I thought was kind of cool is that
on the-- I never know what they're called-- the bent places up on the bus where we put the ads, that
we could put some more information about the LiVE program up there, I think for not a lot of
money. And that maybe we could talk to Denver Human Services, our PEAK partner, about
helping us to put those up on our buses. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams. And I'm wanting really badly to turn over the
meeting to you. So Director Lewis and Director Rivera-Malpiede next after that. And then we'll
go.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair Heather, I'm curious, do you know if is it only access online
that you would apply? Could someone call and speak to a representative that could help them-HEATHER MCKILLOP: So currently, yes, you can only apply online.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Sorry. John Denver.
Is there any-- I think about computer literacy and social service programs. And I wonder if that
could potentially be a barrier for folks and if we've had any conversations with the folks who run
PEAK to have that as an option.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we've not had the-- we had early on conversations about the ability
to put paper applications in. But that creates all different kinds of problems about privacy issues
and other things.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is why in working with the non-profits and particularly the
homeless community that their recommendation was that we have somebody in the community at
different locations, where people could know and it could be posted, right? So I know every
Tuesday morning from 9:00 to noon, I can go to the Denver Public Library and get help.
So that's what we're attempting to do now with this outreach worker is to be able to assist those
people that may have issues with the computers or just not understand what they might need to
load in there to be able to get proof of income or something else. They can go to those locations
on a particular day and get that assistance.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you.
And I know we've had a lot of-- I know you all have heard quite a bit, and many Directors as well,
from our partners, particularly our nonprofit partners, and I'm curious how we might be leveraging
their interest in this program to better market this program to the clients that they may serve.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you want want me to address?
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Yeah. Actually, can I-- I would like to say something about the
last. Monika Treipl-Harnke again, about the last item, as well, the phone in, for example.
There's also a photo required and potentially income verification. So an outreach coordinator, just
like they do at Denver Human Services right now, can also take a picture of the person right then
and there and load it into the system. So just from a logistical perspective, getting documentation
through the phone, we can't do that. So it is easier. Then someone can just do the whole application,
including photo, including maybe an image of a pay stub or something, at the same time right then
and there. So that was to the phone question.

We have been sending information to the nonprofit organizations that we work with in our
nonprofit program. I know they were going to send out-- the program was going to send out more
again. I don't know if that has happened yet. So we can check on that.
So our existing contacts we've worked with, there is a-- I'm just looking at the communications
plan that I think you all got a week or so ago. There's also, our marketing department will have
some kind of social media posts and other communications that people can just, organizations can
just take and plug into their channels, so send it to their email or, if they have a social media
presence, post it there. So we want to provide canned messages that can just be plugged in.
And we also have, I know we've been approached by some organizations that have offered help.
So we do have the links, the brochures, all the information that we can provide there.
We also will speak with Denver again to send something through their county network. It's been
done before. But maybe this is a good time, you know, now that we're in almost half a year to kind
of do another push and send all that information out again.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I appreciate all of that information and the work you all have done so
far. And I would certainly be in support of a more aggressive approach. I think where we talk about
transit equity as a goal of the agency. I can't remember the term that we coined. And I think if we
have a program that folks who make 185%, they qualify at 185% of the federal poverty line, that
is us moving more towards transit equity. And if we don't have metrics tied to that, or targets or
goals, I think it's hard for us to one, obtain those things, but measure our success. And so I would
encourage us to think about putting some values or some numbers on those things so that we can
see and benchmark our success and really start getting more folks eligible in this-- not eligible,
whatever that term is when they're in it. Enrolled, thanks, hon. Enrolled in this program.
That's it. Thank you so much. I appreciate your time.
SHELLY COOK: Good points. OK, Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Well, you all know that this is also a
very, very deep piece of my soul. And you know, it has been just six months. That's the first thing
I would say.
The second thing that I would encourage us to look at is to think outside of the box and perhaps
have this person go and train service agencies and communities to actually help their community
members to participate. Northeast Transportation Connections received a grant from the North
Denver Cornerstone for, it wasn't very much. And that grant, what it did, was it helped train one
person in that agency to help members of their community to register for the LiVE program.
And I think maybe if we did more of that where people gather organically. We don't have to go
out and do that. We just go to work they're at, actually all the time. And so I would really encourage
that we look at that. We have over 300 nonprofit partners that we could also train in blocks to go
out and help other organizations get people to get registered.

And it is a very personal, private thing to do. Because people are not, they're not confident in
giving out any kind of information to a government or a, that they don't trust. We're really talking
about trust here.
And the other part of it is let's think about our partnerships, all the transportation management
associations could probably get trained to go help nonprofits do this as well. We have so many
resources available to us.
But I guess now that we've been in this for six months, and we've really worked on this with several
organizations in the Swansea, Globeville, Elyria neighborhoods is really partnering with La
Clinica and where people go naturally might be the best way to do this.
And I agree with you completely. The folks we're talking about can't take a morning off to come
down and get their picture taken and pick up a card like other people have the opportunity to do.
And I found that when I was doing a master eco pass program for the working poor, we would go
to them and take their picture there and stuff.
So I think we really just kind of think outside of the box. We can get this. We could really increase
these numbers pretty drastically. So thank you for the work that you're doing. I would love to sit
down with you and brainstorm and come up with some ideas and help move this forward. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
SHELLY COOK: You bet. Director Tisdale, wrap up?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Let us not forget to celebrate. As we talk
about the problems and the issues, it's actually been 210 days and is found on page 50 of our
packet. Within those 210 days, there were almost 6,000 applications submitted. And only 100 were
denied because they didn't qualify. I think we need to celebrate that. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you very much. I think we're going to close. I would add, the request I'd
had from a TSO. So maybe your person can take advantage of the contact with many or most on
the commuter rail lines to just inform the TSOs, who are in a good position to hear from or learn
about particular needs from folks, hey, who work for a halfway house or who are themselves
having trouble paying the fare.
So thank you very much.
OK. Other matters? Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I may not be appropriate. And so just use
the gavel if you need to, as far as my announcement. But I just wanted to highlight very-- and this
really dovetails with our last discussion-- but Energy Outreach Colorado, I serve on that Board as
Vice Chair. It's a wonderful organization that helps with poverty and issues with heat sources and
electricity and natural gas and propane, problems that many of our friends and neighbors have, has
a wonderful event planned on Thursday the 27th of February at Union Station, of all places.

So I'm sure Pauletta or others may know more about this. But it's a day-long event called Behind
These Walls. And it's basically to spotlight the many struggles that people all across Colorado face
and talks about the issues that are hidden behind walls from people that have faulty furnaces, using
their ovens to heat the home, and so on and so forth.
And it's a free event for the public, 8:00 to 6:00 at the south end of the plaza at Denver Union
Station. I'm going to try and make an appearance, and I would hope that some of my fellow Board
members would do so as well. Energy Outreach is a great partner, as most of you know. Thank
you.
SHELLY COOK: Great. Great to hear the good things going on at our facilities. Thank you very
much.
Anybody else? Then I'll go ahead and adjourn, noting that our next meeting is March 10. Thank
you, everybody.
[GAVEL POUNDS]
We'll take a, what, five-, seven-minute break and then we'll reconvene as the Ops Committee here.

