2024-02-13
Finance and Planning Committee
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening. The Tuesday, February 13 Finance and Planning Committee of the RTD
will now come to order. Happy Galentine's Day to all. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Standard
Time. And I would respectfully request everyone attending to mute yourself during the course of this
virtual meeting unless you are recognized to speak.
We want to thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD
Board of Directors will continue for an indefinite but hopefully brief period of time to be held remotely via
Zoom. And these will all be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd denver.com for access.
In addition, a live stream of this meeting is available via RTD's YouTube page. Now, at this evening's
meeting, we are providing communication access real-time translation, also known as CART. And that's
to provide reliable real-time captioning. Anyone who would like to access the CART service should send
an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided to you.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Bob Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: Peggy Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Bobby Dishell is absent on an excused absence. Director Lynn Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
DOUG TISDALE: Vice Chair Michael Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
DOUG TISDALE: JoyAnn Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And I, Doug Tisdale, am present and serve as the chair of this committee.
And for the record, I see that we also have Board Chair Erik Davidson with us and Director Marjorie
Sloan. I do not see any other directors present. Please advise if I have missed you and you are here. All
right, then, I think we have that covered.
I would like to open now the public comment section. And this is to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic that is listed in the public meeting agenda for the current as well as for the
immediately preceding month. Now, if you wish to speak, please either raise your virtual hand on your
computer or press *9 on your telephone.

During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses to what you may say.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board
Office, and I'll give that address again. It's rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Are there any hands raised at
this time for the public comment section of this committee meeting?
JACK KROLL: Hi, Chair Tisdale. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this time, I
do not see any hands raised.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, fine. Thank you. We do not have anyone expressing a desire to speak in the
public comment section. So we will move on from that. But we ask first whether the Board Office has
received any email comments for tonight's meeting. Mr. Kroll, could you advise us to that, please?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Committee Chair Tisdale. The Board Office has not received any public comment via
email in advance of this meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. And so with no participants in the queue and no email comments
having been received, we will close the public comment period at this time. At this point, the next item on
our agenda relates to the Revenue Diversification Working Group. And I will call upon our Board Chair
Erik Davidson to provide an update from the Revenue Diversification Working Group relative to what
they've been doing. Chair Davidson, the floor is yours.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Yeah, I would like to just report on a few things from the
Revenue Diversification Working Group from the most recent meeting. I would also like to solicit some
feedback from Board members that can be submitted offline. I'll touch on that in a moment.
The last meeting of the Revenue Diversification Working Group was held on February 5, 2024. And we
discussed a series of items. As I think I mentioned in January, we will have some forthcoming
recommendations from the working group for the Finance and Planning Committee to consider and,
ultimately, the Board of Directors.
We're getting close to that point. This will be on the agenda at the brief portion of the agenda on the
retreat on the 24th. But here are some things that you can expect that are forthcoming.
So first of all, staff has done some looking at all prior efforts to look at revenue diversification
opportunities that have been investigated in the past. We'll highlight some of the findings when this comes
forward to the committee.
But just jumping right to the end, there's not a lot that we are able to do substantively inside of RTD. It is
clear that when we look at diversifying funding and better resourcing transit and bolstering our resources,
this will require the action of either voters, the legislature, or some combination thereof.
So what has become very clear to us is that we need to go through an exercise to make sure we clearly
communicate out what our current financial position is, what our strengths are from a financial position,
and where some of our weaknesses lie, and to help educate the public about RTD's financial position and
provide transparency there. So we had a discussion around a communication strategy around this.
And our Chief Communications and Engagement Officer, Stuart Summers, has graciously joined this
working group on several occasions to share some perspective of communication opportunities. One of
those communication opportunities we believe that the Finance and Planning Committee and Board

should consider would be a public-facing website to capture information about our financial position and
information about some of our financial challenges.
Mr. Summers is now drafting some concepts as to what we might put together there. And I'd like to invite
all directors to reach out to me directly as the liaison to the working group if there are questions that you
have that you think might be good for us to put in a public-facing way.
What I'm speaking about there is we've talked about potentially having a Frequently Asked Questions
section that would help inform folks about our financial position. I would suspect that many directors may
have ideas of what could be good questions or good information to provide. And I invite you to reach out
to me. And I can carry that forward to the Revenue Diversification Working Group. So that's one item that
we've talked about, is this communication strategy, given that it is likely that RTD in the future will need to
engage with the public in the area of revenue diversification.
We've also had some discussion around potential impacts from TABOR. The Revenue Diversification
Working Group, some members of staff, including our Chief Financial Officer, Doug MacLeod, are
working on getting better and more firm numbers on what exactly, which revenues will be subject to
TABOR, and also getting some estimates or ideas of at least the range that we could be at risk on an
annual basis. when we move to the end of our TABOR exemption on the base system.
Some more refined numbers will be forthcoming to Finance and Planning. We did have some discussion
around efforts that are underway. Our Finance Team, led by Doug MacLeod, are reaching out to other
public entities in the state of Colorado that have faced TABOR impact and trying to learn from those
experiences. So there will be some forthcoming information there.
The next meeting will be on March 4 of the Revenue Diversification Group, although there may be some
separate work streams as staff is working on the TABOR item, as well as the revenue diversification side
of things. And again, I'd just like to note that at the retreat, when we look at the Finance and Planning
Working Plan, Mr. Chair, I would like to engage with you and your team on this committee as to where to
slot in the recommendations that will be forthcoming in those discussions.
So thank you. That's what I have to report at this time. And Mr. Chair, if it's OK with you, I'd like to open
the floor to either our Chief Financial Officer, Doug MacLeod, or our General Manager and CEO, Debra
Johnson, if there's anything they would like to fill in that I have missed from that most recent meeting.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much, Chair Davidson. We appreciate that. We appreciate the regular
reports, too. I take it from what you've listed, we've rejected the idea that was proposed about standing
out in front of the building with a tin cup. But we can look at that later, I suppose.
Let me ask our General Manager CEO whether she has anything to add. And then after that, I will ask our
Chief Financial Officer. Madam General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Chair Tisdale. And thank you, Chair Davidson, for the report. I
believe you've covered it adequately. We have a lot of work before us. And recognizing that Stuart
Summers is working in conjunction with the Task Force to present comprehensive and succinct
messages, so Board members will be very well-equipped to address any increase, I don't believe there's
anything else at this juncture can lend. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam General Manager. We appreciate that. And Mr. Chief
Financial Officer Doug MacLeod, is there any word you would like to share with the group at this time
regarding this topic?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Chair Davidson, thank you very much for that great
summary. I don't have anything to add. I am looking forward to this effort. And I think we will have a good
path forward based on the recommendations that will be brought to the Board. So thank you for the
opportunity.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. Thank you very much. We appreciate the report and the comments from all
of you. And we look forward to more very positive action going forward to demonstrate how innovative
and creative we can try to be.
The next item on the agenda is our recommended actions. There are no recommended actions on our
agenda this evening.
Turning to discussion items, we do have one discussion item that is on the agenda for this meeting, and
that item is for the external auditor engagement communications. And so we'll stay with our Chief
Financial Officer Doug MacLeod at this point to present this item. So, Mr. MacLeod, the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Good evening. I am Doug MacLeod, the Chief Financial
Officer at RTD. I'm joined by Pam Hill, who's a partner with Plante Moran, and Chris Gilbert, who is a
senior manager with Plante Moran. Plante Moran is RTD's external Independent audit firm.
And before turning the floor over to Mrs. Hill and Mr. Gilbert, I'd like to just give a quick introduction to this
item. So as the committee is aware, RTD is subject to a great deal of regulatory oversight, as well as
ongoing reviews and audits. There is a difference between a review and an audit. An audit involves
specific testing, specific examination procedures that occur. And it's at a higher level than a review is.
So some examples of reviews that occur with RTD, the FTA requires a financial management oversight
review occasionally, an FMO review it's also termed, as well as triennial review. So that's an example of a
general review that RTD is subject to on a regular basis.
Several audits also occur within RTD's activities. One area is internal audits. And so I'm laying this out so
as to separate what Plante Moran will be doing from our other audits and reviews.
Internal audits are performed by RubinBrown for RTD. Those internal audits are really meant as more of a
governance and internal governance assessment and management technique. And it's a good business
practice.
Also, state audits are performed on RTD by the Colorado State Office of the State Auditor, the OSA.
Those audits are performance audits. And RTD, as a subdivision of the state, is required to undergo
those at least once every five years. So that's another type of audit RTD is subject to.
The subject matter tonight deals with financial audits and single audits. So Plante Moran is RTD's, as I
mentioned, external independent certified audit firm that RTD has contracted with. So they have three
primary functions that they will engage with RTD in the coming months on. Two of those are audits, and
one is more procedural.

The first item is a financial statement audit of RTD's Annual Comprehensive Financial Report for 2023,
also known as the ACFR. That financial statement is an annual statement that is prepared by
management and the responsibility of RTD management in terms of presentation and preparation. Plante
Moran's role is to issue an opinion on the fairness of the presentation of those financial statement
disclosures and financial statements.
Secondly, Plante Moran will also be performing a single audit, which is also known as a uniform guidance
audit. This is an audit required by the Federal Office of Management and Budget, also known as the
OMB. Certain procedures are required for that audit. And those are required for any recipients of federal
funding exceeding $750,000 annually. And RTD definitely falls within that category.
And then finally, there are some additional procedures that are performed regarding National Transit
Database, or NTD submissions, which are due by April 30 this year for the 2023 calendar year or fiscal
year, in RTD's case, January through December. Plante Moran will be taking a look at some of those
numbers and reports that we we'll be submitting to the NTD database.
So this discussion item tonight is really a requirement by professional standards regarding Plante Moran's
engagement with RTD. And there are certain communications that Mrs. Hill and Mr. Gilbert will need to
give to the governing body as part of this engagement in planning their activities that are upcoming. So
without further ado, I'd like to turn the floor over to Mrs. Hill and Mr. Gilbert.
PAM HILL: All right, then. Well, thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. We're happy to be here this evening.
Thank you for having us.
As was shared and, I think, was a great explanation, we do have a required communication that we plan
to discuss this evening with the committee. And thank you, Chris, for pulling that up on screen. And I
know you've all received this ahead of time as well. And this will go out to the entire Board as well, if it
hasn't already. But after this meeting, for sure, if it has not.
As part of our requirements under the auditing standards, we're required to communicate with those
charged with governance related to the external audit process, get any feedback that you all might have,
and incorporate that feedback into the audit process. And so tonight, we have this letter that we plan to go
over.
We also are in the process of working with Mr. Kroll to schedule a time to meet with Chair Davidson to
talk in a little bit more detail on the audit process and have some individual conversations. And that's very
typical that we meet with the board chair and/or the Audit Committee chair each year. So, I guess, Erik,
look for that email over the next couple of weeks. But we are working with Mr. Kroll on that.
So a couple things-- Chris is going to cover just the high-level, some details of the required
communication. But before I get into that, I really just wanted to give you a broad overview of the audit
process. The audit process never really ends. Once it's over, we really maintain a very close working
relationship with your team throughout the year in terms of when unusual things come up, they reach out.
We like to have communications throughout the year so that when the audit process happens, there's no
surprises, and that we're all on the same page. So that open communication has really been key to a
successful audit process over the last several years.
And this year, I think, was no different. We continued to hone in on that process. And we've actually
started scheduling regular meetings just to make sure that we aren't missing something or maybe to jog

their memory on different things because we know how much RTD has going on. So we've started doing
that. I think that's been working out really well.
There's a couple new accounting standards this year, which Chris will get into, which has led to additional
calls as well. So all of those things, I think, are key to a very successful audit. And we've been doing
those throughout the year. So just wanted to make you aware of that.
And then also, we did perform some interim procedures back in December. And so we're trying to move
some of the testing forward, if possible, to help relieve some of the stress on RTD's team because we
know there's a lot of preparation for the three audits or the two audits and the one additional procedure
that we do that Mr. McLeod's team must get ready for all at one-- a couple-month period. So tried to move
some of that up to relieve some of the stress on them. And I'm hoping they're going to see the benefit of
that this year.
I also wanted to just touch briefly on there's two new auditing standards that are not touched on in this
letter that I just wanted to make sure the committee was aware of. So as auditors, we have to follow
various auditing standards, hence the reason for some of this communication was a new auditing
standard that came out 10, 15 years ago.
There are two new significant auditing standards that are in place for all 12/31/23 audits. So it doesn't
matter if you're auditing the local car dealer down the street or if we're auditing RTD. Every auditor has to
follow these same standards.
And the two new standards, which we've spent a lot of time working with Mr. McLeod's team on, really
relate to accounting for estimates, which Chris will get into what some of those significant estimates are
when he covers the letter. And we've always audited for those estimates, but they're requiring us to take
an additional dive into that and the controls related to those estimates.
And then the other new auditing standard is additional look into the internal controls over financial
reporting for RTD. So we've always tested the key internal controls over financial reporting in the past.
This is a different way of looking at them and a little-- I don't want to say more in depth, but a little bit more
prescribed, potentially. And so we definitely have been working with your team on those items, answering
a lot of questions, and performing some tests around those, which we'll continue to test as we head into
our audit fieldwork end of February.
So I just wanted to make the committee aware that those are new things. Unfortunately, the auditing
standards and the accounting standards boards don't stop with these new items. So there's something
new almost every year. This year RTD is lucky, and there's four new things that they get to deal with
during the audit this year.
So I just wanted to point that out because I know your team has a lot of initiatives. They're very busy. We
try to help as much as possible with all the tools we have. But I don't see these types of new standards
and things stopping anytime soon. So we'll keep you apprised of the new ones and the current ones. And
we'll continue to work with your team on ensuring successful implementation of those.
So with that, I'm going to turn over to Chris and have him walk you through that letter high-level. I know
you've had it, so I know you have had a chance to go through it. So we'll just touch on some of the key
points here. So Chris, go ahead.

CHRIS GILBERT: All right. Thanks, Pam. So I'm going to spend a few minutes just covering just a couple
of highlights on the letter. Not many changes from what you may have seen in previous years, but just
wanted to cover some highlights here.
So as was previously mentioned, our responsibility as auditors is to express an opinion about whether the
financial statements are fairly presented in conformity with US generally accepted accounting principles
So with that being said, as was previously mentioned as well, there are a few new accounting standards
that are effective this year for RTD that will need to be looked into, so most notably GASB 96, which
would essentially require you to recognize a right-to-use asset and a related liability for any subscriptionbased information technology arrangements as defined in the new standard.
So I know the Finance Team has been working on finishing up their evaluation of the impact of these new
standards, if any. And we will, once we get in there, we will audit their conclusions as a result. So this
would be the 96 is similar to 87, which you would have seen last year related to leases.
So if the impact is material to RTD, you would be required to adopt the new standards. However, and we
would be required to include an emphasis-of-matter paragraph in our audited auditor's report, essentially
informing the users of the financial statements about the new standards being implemented. And we did
this last year, as mentioned, for GASB 87 with leases. But if it's not material, it would not be required to
be adopted. So we will, obviously, report back on that in our end-of-audit communication.
And now just turning over to risks, so as Pam mentioned earlier, as part of our planning for the audit, it
really includes us brainstorming around risks related to financial reporting and to identify potential risks of
mis-statements for the financial statements. And I did just want to clarify that this does not mean that we
have identified any deficiencies in RTD's system of internal controls. These are just potential risk areas
for us to focus on due to the industry and just due to the nature and significance of these items and really
aren't much different than what you would have seen in previous years.
So the first one, auditing standards essentially require us to consider management over-ride as a control
risk. And that's something that we do various procedures to address the risk there.
Another risk would be proper recording of grant funding and the completeness of your schedule of
expenditures of federal awards. And we get into a lot of that in both the audit of the financial statements,
as well as the federal awards audit.
And then also So in the federal awards audit, we look into the risks that expenses aren't being double
counted in multiple grant reimbursements. So that's certainly a common risk among the industry. So we
definitely look at that and do certain tests there.
And then the last one is just, as Pam mentioned earlier and related to estimates, just the risk related to
management's process for developing accounting estimates as it relates to the net pension liability. So as
you're well aware, there's significant estimates in evolving your actuarial report, whether it's the
investment rate of return, mortality tables. There's a lot of different estimates that are utilized and relied
upon in developing those liabilities. And we definitely spend a lot of time looking into and testing those
estimates as well. And with all of these risks, we design and perform specific procedures to address each
of these risks as part of our audit.
So with that being said, there really isn't much else here. That's really all we had. I don't know if there are
any questions or anything on what was presented.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, both Ms. Hill and Mr. Gilbert. We'll open up to the Committee for
questions. But I do have one first that I would like to pose, and that is, do we need to take separate action
to adopt GASB 96? Or is that done efficiently and effectively simply by our signing this letter?
PAM HILL: So if I could answer-- Doug, feel free to jump in as well. But no, so there is no action for you to
take. The Accounting Team and Mr MacLeod's team is working through that process of doing the
calculations, reviewing all the agreements.
And based on the work they do, they will determine, alongside with us, the potential impact it may have
on the statement. So it's more of an accounting transaction than anything that the Committee would need
to act upon. But Mr, MacLeod, definitely add anything else that I missed there.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, sir?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Pam. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, and from an action item perspective
regarding the Finance Committee, as well as the full Board, where that will take place is in the full
presentation of the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report for 2023. That is on the work plan schedule,
yet to be discussed and finalized.
However, that would occur approximately midyear, where we would come before this body and ask for
the Finance and Planning Committee to approve the Financial Report into the records of RTD. And it
would include all the required GASBs within there.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, fine. I appreciate that. As I say, the question arises by virtue of the letter saying
"RTD adopted the provisions of GASB 96." And I wanted to know, well, is that an internal accounting, our
Financial Department dealing with that and adopting that as a practice, or does it have to come before the
Committee and the Board formally to be adopted as a standard? So I will leave that for a later discussion
when we are presented with the materials later in the year.
Now, having taken up too much time on my own, the Chair now asks, are there committee members who
have questions that they would like to raise at this time, either to Ms. Hill, Mr. Gilbert, or to Mr. MacLeod?
I see Director Broom's hand is raised. Director Broom, you are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. This past couple of years because of COVID, there were significant new
federal funds made available to local jurisdictions. Do they require a lot of additional reporting? And did
we comply with that additional reporting?
PAM HILL: So I can take the first, and then-DOUG TISDALE: Please, Ms. Hill, if you would, yes.
PAM HILL: I was going to say, then, and maybe, Mr. MacLeod, if you want to jump in from your
perspective after we're done. So as Doug mentioned earlier, one of the audits that we do perform is
compliance with federal spending. So when RTD spent the various tranches of COVID funding that you
did receive, those dollars were all included within our audits of the federal award. So we did test those.
They definitely were part of our population and part of our testing.
We did not have any findings over the last several years related to the spending of those dollars. And
they would be included in all of our reporting in the past. So yes, we definitely would have tested those
and would test them as part of our normal compliance testing of how RTD's spending their federal money.

DOUG TISDALE: Director Broom, anything further on that you wanted to follow up with?
BOB BROOM: Well, thanks. I think that covers it. What concerned me was reading newspaper reports
that some of these funds were used to build parks and a lot of things that didn't seem to have much to do
with the COVID part of it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. And let me just add, that was not a comment as to how RTD spent the funds, but
is how other governmental agencies who were recipients of those funds spent them.
BOB BROOM: That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Any further questions from any other Committee member at this
time? We'll get to other Board members in a moment. But first, any Committee member with a question, if
you would like to raise your hand, please.
I see no other hands being raised at this time. And I see Director Broom's is lingering there. But I think
that's just to remind us he's with us.
What I would note is that this matter will come back for formal action, obviously, as we get the iterations of
the audit. So there will be numerous opportunities to ask other questions regarding this process and
regarding the results from the process.
Now let me ask any other Board members who are present on the call if you have any questions you
would like to raise at this time. I see no indication. So I think we have concluded this discussion item. Ms.
Hill, Mr. Gilbert, we thank you very much for being here with us in this virtual meeting and for sharing that
information. And we look forward, as we have in the past, to working with you on a productive process,
which has resulted in the past in a clean audit. So that's always nice.
We turn now to other matters. This is essentially an open forum to raise matters that are germane to the
work of the Finance and Planning Committee. The Chair will use this opportunity to raise at least one
matter regarding the Committee Work Plan. But first I will ask if there are any other matters that
Committee members wish to discuss at this time. I do not see any hands raised or any facial expressions
indicating you are pregnant with comment.
So let me ask, are there any Board members who have any items they would like to bring to the attention
of the Committee that would be germane to the Committee's work? Again, I see none. So as indicated,
the Chair would like to share one or two observations regarding the work plan being formulated for this
committee.
A draft of the work plan was circulated at the beginning of this month. Actually, we had an earlier draft
that was circulated in January. Then in February, we circulated a revised draft.
We have requested committee members to submit any ideas they have for possible inclusion in the work
plan. Next Tuesday, Vice Chair Guzman and I will be meeting with GM CEO Johnson and CFO MacLeod
to discuss finalizing the work plan in order to bring it back to all of you for your approval on March 12 at
the committee level and then, ultimately, to the Board for its approval.
I want to emphasize one very important point for all of you. This committee's work plan is intended to be
and will be a living document. It is to be flexible. As circumstances warrant, items may be added. Items
may even be removed.

As I always instructed the attorneys under my supervision, when they utilized one of the over 1,000 forms
that I created for use in real estate and bankruptcy cases, we rule the forms. The forms don't rule us. So
as and when we need to make changes, we will. And I don't want anyone to have any doubt about that or
any concern about that.
But the point is we have to have a starting point to ground ourselves. And the work plan that we will
submit to you at our next meeting will be exactly that, that starting point. Are there any Committee
members who would like to add comments now based upon the Chair's remarks? Mr. Vice Chair, Vice
Chair Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I think there's been some maybe confusion or misunderstanding on how we
share that information and to whom it's given, right? So you are the Chair. Do you want the emails? Do
we send them to Jack? Do I take some of them? Do we need to make a phone call? Is it better written? Is
there any advice on how to submit those concerns, questions, or ideas? And where are we sending them
to?
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent question, Mr. Vice Chair. In the first instance, they should be addressed to me
as the chair of this committee. But always, any communication that the directors do relative to matters
such as this-- obviously, not personal communications-- should be copied to Jack Kroll as the Executive
Manager of the RTD Board Office. Please make sure he is listed as a CC.
And if you wish to add some Mr. MacLeod on it, I'm certain he wouldn't mind. He probably doesn't get that
many emails in a day anyway. So this would make him feel warm and comfortable. So consider that
possibility.
But yes, send them to me, and absolutely copy Jack Kroll as our Executive Manager of the Board Office.
Please do not include another director on the email because that constitutes, at that moment with three
people, a meeting and, therefore, would constitute a violation of the Open Meetings Law. Send it to me
and Mr. Kroll, and we will distribute to all, and we will make sure they are discussed. Does that respond,
Mr. Vice Chair, to your question?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: You are very welcome, sir. Any other questions or comments or observations that any
Committee member would like to share at this time? Seeing none, any Board member with any comment
or observations? Mr. Chair, you are recognized.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. First of all, thank you for taking this on as Chair of the
Committee and to Vice Chair Guzman as well and to Mr. Kroll for working on these. I appreciate it.
I also just wanted to highlight that we will, between the two actions you referenced, the meeting that you'll
have next week, as well as then the adoption of the work plan by the Committee, we will have the Board
retreat. And we have scheduled some time at the retreat for the committees to meet in breakout to just
review and take stock of where we are.
So I just wanted to note that. And certainly encourage everyone's participation in that effort on the retreat.
So thank you, Mr. Chair. That's all I wanted to add.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Board Chair. And that's an excellent addition to point out to everyone,
that yes, there's another bite at the apple, which will be at the retreat that we will have at the end of this

month. Are there any other matters to come before the Finance and Planning Committee for this
Galentine's Day meeting? Hearing none-- oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Vice Chair, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just real quick, I wanted to thank GM CEO Johnson for reporting out numbers
about sales and use tax to the district by county and city. I thought that was really helpful. If you haven't
had a chance to look at those numbers, folks, my colleagues, please, please review them. I think that
they're remarkable. And it's really interesting just to see a breakdown of our district in a different manner.
And I know that that took some time and work. So Debra, just wanted to thank you, Madam CEO, and
your team for sending that out to us. I appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for saying that. It's an important supportive comment for us to make
because that is important information. And I will add that we can supplement some of that, too. I
remember a number of years ago when I served as Board Chair, we got such a report.
But we also then had corresponding numbers on how much did we actually spend in providing services to
each of the counties? It's very difficult, if not impossible to do on a city basis. But we did break out what a
fare estimate was of services provided and the costs associated therewith, which is another interesting
comparison. But that's something we can follow up on later.
Other comments, questions, or other matters for any Committee member or Board member to raise at this
time? Scanning the screen and seeing no indication of any desire to speak, I will advise that the next
Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, March the 12th.
And seeing no other discussion, I will note for the sake of the record that this meeting of the Finance and
Planning Committee is adjourned as of 6:15 PM Mountain Standard Time. Thank you all very much for
your participation. Have a good evening.

