2022-10-20
Executive Committee (1)
VINCE BUZEK: Great. The Executive Committee will now come to order. We're convened as of 12:01 PM
on October 20, 2022. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you
are recognized to speak. And I think that means mute your electronic recordings, your things, not yourself.
I'll now call the role. First, Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Self. I muted myself. But I'm here.
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Treasurer Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: And Buzek is here too. And I see our GM CEO Johnson in attendance as well as our
General Counsel Melanie Snyder and a host of others. Thanks, everybody, for being here. I'm going to
open the public comment period next. I'd like to open that up to anybody who would like to address this
committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand, or press star 9 on
your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle
your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded.
If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker
has documentation or reference materials for the committee, or if any member of the public would like to
submit written comments, please email those materials to the board office at the following address,
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact
speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers should
begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes to speak. Tai-Shrae,
do we have any speakers?

TAI-SHRAE PARISH: I do not see any speakers in the queue.
VINCE BUZEK: Has anybody emailed any comments?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No. There were no emails.
VINCE BUZEK: So, with no speakers in the queue and no email comments, we're going to close the public
comment period at this time. Our first item up is the October board meeting agenda review. I want to note,
there's going to be an addition of a discussion item to the agenda between the recommended action and
the report of director activities. And there is a discussion item. Will be entitled Safety Management System
Update and will outline the agency's safety performance. So, I need a motion to approve the October board
meeting agenda.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Whitmore and a second by Sloan. Let's see. Do we have any discussion on the agenda?
First Vice Chair Guissinger, please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can save this to the meeting. But I'd like to pull the internal audit function off of the
consent agenda. I talked with Peggy about it this morning, and there's some things that have been raised.
I'm not exactly sure how-- I think that maybe the Audit Committee is bringing back some amendments.
Peggy, I'm not sure how that was left. But they just need to be-- the internal audit function needs to reflect
the same decisions as the Audit Committee charter. And there's some overlap of some things that I think
might be up for discussion on that one. So that's just asking to move it off the consent agenda.
VINCE BUZEK: Cool. We can do that. Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: And maybe Ms. Snyder can address this. But I know that she and Doug MacLeod and
Rubin Brown folks were going to be meeting yesterday to talk about a strategy. So, I think these charters,
as they appear in the packet, which was sent out last Friday, do not reflect the most recent discussions.
Am I right, Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Director Catlin. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So yes, we-Rubin Brown had to reschedule. So Doug MacLeod, our CFO, and I are meeting with them right after this
meeting.
And then we anticipate circulating to the ad hoc committee members for your review, Director Catlin, and
for Directors Dishell and Director Davidson to take a look at before some proposed amendments get
circulated to the Board in advance of Tuesday's Board meeting. So we do anticipate that the ad hoc
committee is going to be offering some amendments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I just wanted to say that these two attachments to the Board packet as
they stand right now are not the most current. But I still don't have a problem with pulling the internal function
charter from the unanimous consent agenda if it warrants discussion based on some of the amendments.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Is that all you have, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Melanie, will you be looking at the internal audit function? I just noticed, today,
for instance, it said the Audit Committee will approve the risk-based annual audit plan. And that was one
thing that was under discussion. And I think the committee was leaning towards that that would go to the
Board. So the internal audit function just needs to reflect the same changes.
MELANIE SNYDER: That's correct, yes. We'll be reading those together at the same time, and then, of
course, also including some of the feedback that was received from Director Cook and from you, Director
Guissinger, over the weekend.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Any further discussion on the October Board agenda? So with the change noted by First
Vice Chair Guissinger, do we have any no votes on the agenda? Seeing none. That moves forward.
As a reminder, the amended delegation of authority and competitive selection was postponed until the
October Board meeting. So that will be on the Board agenda for next week. And we will likely have an
amendment to the Audit Committee Chair-- we just discussed that-- after the ad hoc argument he sent
Monday. So it's also important to note we're going to have an executive session during next week's Board
meeting, as well. So that should be quite interesting.
Next, we're going to move on to discussion items, if we may. First is our government relations report.
General Manager Johnson, would you or Mr. Davies like to present this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Michael Davies, our government relations officer, is present and
will be providing you with the government relations report. Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, thank you. Hello, Chair, members of the committee. Michael Davies, government
relations officer. Just have a brief government relations report.
Starting at the federal level, if you all recall, last time, the deliberations on an appropriations bill for fiscal
year 2023 were still up in the air from Congress, and not quite sure exactly how long that was going to be- how long that would go through-- and at the same time, whether they would be able to come to negotiations
on a continuing resolution to just keep the federal government open.
Of course, Congress did come together and negotiate a continuing resolution, which does fund government
programs. And they funded that through December 16. So, Congress will have to come together again

before December 16 and decide whether to do another continuing resolution or come together and move
an entire fiscal year 2023 appropriations package.
The one thing to note on that is that, if a full fiscal year 2023 appropriations package is not agreed to, the
Federal Transit Administration or USDOT as a whole will not release competitive grant funding for fiscal
year 2023 that's authorized in the IIJA, or the BIL, as it's otherwise known.
So that has an impact on the agency's ability to apply, obviously, for competitive grant programs. And until
the full year is agreed to, those competitive announcements will not go out.
Moving over to the state side of things, similar to the federal government, not a lot to report. Many members
are just focused on the election, obviously. But one thing that is not in the written report that I do want to
note is that some of the interim committees have completed their work at the state level.
And we've been tracking those bills and making sure that, if there are things approved by the interim
committees, that we're paying attention to those. So far, none of the bills that have been approved by the
interim committees cross into transit policy or have any impacts on RTD. But we'll continue to track that as
we get closer to next year's General Assembly session.
And then, lastly, just moving to the local level, not a lot to report there. But as noted in the report, have been
working with our local government affairs liaison, Catalyst Public Affairs, and our Planning Department staff
to stand up the Subregional Service Council meetings and those kickoff meetings. So those are scheduled
for the first couple weeks of November. And with that, that concludes my report. I'm happy to take any
questions. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Davies. Anybody have questions for Mr. Davies? Nope. Great. Thanks for
your report, Michael.
We're going to move on to the 2023 meeting calendar. Are there any questions or comments on what's
included in your packet from the committee? And if not, are we OK publishing the 2023 calendar with the
dates provided?
TROY WHITMORE: The only problem with that calendar is we should have done that about five years ago.
Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. Well noted, Director Whitmore. Course, that would have been before we were
on the Board. So it's Peggy's fault. Speaking of Peggy, Second Vice Chair Catlin, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Mr. Chair. I think there was some confusion about moving the first meeting of
the year to the second Tuesday. And as I recall, we don't normally have meetings immediately following a
Monday holiday, which the 3rd would have been. And so that is-- am I correct to say that's why that was
adjusted?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Yes. No confusion. Yes, it was adjusted because we're coming right off the holidays.
And so, yeah, we wanted to get it off the 3rd and move it to the 10th.

PEGGY CATLIN: And I just wanted to say that for the record because there was some concern about that.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Noted. Anybody else-PEGGY CATLIN: Not by me, but-VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Understood. Anybody else have any comments, questions, things about the 2023
meeting calendar? Cool. So I'm just going to direct staff to go ahead and publish that.
Next discussion item-- once again, the 2023 Board retreat. So if you all recall, I think it was March of 2022
when we had our retreat. And I personally thought it went well. I thought that timing in March was good.
And I think it would be good moving forward in 2023 because we're going to have some new Board
members coming on. And that will give them a little bit of time to acclimate and understand a little bit about
RTD and, maybe, have some constructive things that they've observed and some questions.
So are we OK with that kind of time frame? Does that make sense? I thought that fit fairly well in our financial
planning models and all of that, as well. Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Just to double-check with Debra and Board staff that that works for their planning
horizons. I think it worked well for us. But obviously, we've got to consider staff. Does that seem to be good
timing?
VINCE BUZEK: GM CEO Johnson, would you like to address?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And Thank you very much, Director Whitmore. I
would say, contingent upon what it is in March, because there will be preparation, then. You all need to
discern who would facilitate and things of the like. So, if it is a procurement, that needs to be taken into
consideration, recognizing we're in the latter part of October. So a space, as well, needs to be obtained. So
there's a lot of logistics that are involved.
And not to mention, in March, there is the after-legislative conference that typically kicks off on that-- so
that's a weekend-- a lot of activities done that weekend. So I know last year, if my memory serves me
correctly, it was the latter part of March, almost going into April, in which the Board retreat was held. So I
would just provide that. But we're totally amenable to the schedules. We just have to have adequate time
in relationship to preparation.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. Agreed. So maybe end of March again. We'd need to get another solicitation request
out for our facilitator. I was pleased with that facilitator. I thought they did a pretty good job of-- I guess we'd
get a-- whatever RFQR, PR-- whatever our request for solicitation-- whatever it is. What's the timeline on
that stuff? If we're looking at end of March, when do we need to get that going? Pretty soon? GM CEO
Johnson, I'll talk with you for that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. As it relates to the timeline, it's contingent upon what
other solicitations that the team has in the hopper. As you know, we have experienced people power

problems. And it's rampant throughout the organization. And so there are some projects that take a lot more
time as we go forward. So that's something that we would have to confer with our contracts and
Procurement Director to discern.
But I believe that we could do something if, in fact, there is a-- it'd probably be a request for qualifications.
Don't quote me on that. But I'm saying, most likely, it would be a request for qualifications. And so we want
to ensure that we have open and fair competition for people to submit qualification.
So we're looking at a 30-day time period. I know, previously, we tried to shorten and do a smaller time
period, and we didn't have any responses. So, with that being said, it'd be optimal to have something
available and out on the street in January. But we need the leg time in which staff can do that and then
review the qualifications that are submitted.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Yeah. And so I see General Counsel Snyder with her hand up. Go right ahead.

MELANIE SNYDER: Oh, thank you, Chair. I was just going to add to that to say it's never too early to start
looking at your scope of work and getting that nailed down because that's typically what takes the most
amount of time. So, I'm sure Board staff can pull what was used last time and circulate that. And then you
all can make some adjustments to it.
VINCE BUZEK: Definitely. So, Tai-Shrae, if you could pull that scope of work from the last one and circulate
it to the Executive Committee so we can take a look at it. And next, we'll have to pick a date. So everybody
think about that. We'll pick a date. And then let's work backwards from that. OK. Excellent.
Oh, and I'm looking at my notes. So, the last time, it was Board only, with, I believe, Ms. Johnson and Ms.
Schneider. Any other senior staff, other than Board office staff, present? Don't recall. You guys recall? Ms.
Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. No, there was not any other staff. If my memory
serves me correctly, that was the intent of the Board. You all wanted to have a retreat. And then I
participated, recognizing that, if something came out of that, I would have the responsibility, along with the
team, to implement. And so we will wait to see the scope and go from there.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And I kind of like the Board thing with just Ms. Johnson and Ms. Snyder there to
bounce technical questions off. But I don't think their presence had a chilling effect on our discussions at
all. But I think, when you open it up and get more senior staff involved, it can get-- we've been bogged
down.
So anybody have any real urgent desire to have more members of senior leadership other than Ms. Johnson
and Ms. Snyder? Cool. OK. All right, well, I'll work on that stuff with Tai-Shrae. Tai-Shrae, do you hear me?
OK. Moving on. That takes care of the Board retreat. Anybody else have anything you want to say about
the upcoming Board retreat 2023? No?

PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Chair, if I might-- five years ago, or whatever, we used to have two retreats. One was
a Board-only retreat, and the other was a Board senior leadership retreat.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I don't want to do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: What?
VINCE BUZEK: I don't want to do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm just reminding people that that's the way we used to do it.
VINCE BUZEK: I remember that from my first year, second year. It was just-- yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's just that we have quite a few new senior leadership folks coming on board. And
something that is brief might be an opportunity to really learn about them and their roles and the leadership
team as a whole. I don't know if-VINCE BUZEK: We can set something up separate from a retreat that we could have new staff meet senior
leadership, introduce them, especially, to the new Board members and talk about what they do and how
they do it outside of the retreat. I'd rather focus that, really, on where we're going in the future.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree. I just thought that there might be some opportunity for some-VINCE BUZEK: Good idea, though. That's a good idea that needs to be addressed. Thanks for that.
PEGGY CATLIN: More informal.
VINCE BUZEK: I see-- Tai-Shrae Parish?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Hi, Chair. I just wanted to add into Director Catlin's comment. Historically, when we
had two retreats, it was a way to do planning and goal setting for the agency. But with the strategic plan
that we have in place, I'm not sure that the second retreat was needed. So I just wanted to give some
context about why we had the two versus the one for the past two years.
VINCE BUZEK: Got it. Thanks for that clarification. Yeah, that's important, though. Yeah, I'm not going to
say any more about the two retreats. Done.
Moving on. Anybody else anything else on the retreat? Good? Timeline and recruitment process for the
Board Office Executive Manager. Oh, gosh, I was going to print that out. General Counsel Snyder, you had
put together a timeline-- someone did. And I had it. And I just haven't [INAUDIBLE]. But we have a timeline
for the recruitment. And I believe we closed application-- submissions is closing pretty soon, correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: That's correct, yeah. The timeline-- so we were posting the position. And it's Don
Ronyak in HR who's handling the recruitment, along with a new recruiter. Her name is Paige McClain. So

Don conveyed that the posting will stay open until October 25. I understand there's a number of highly
qualified applicants.
I believe the next steps are that he is providing the-- HR is screening for all the minimum qualifications and
then is going to be providing those applications to the Directors, who are going to be serving on the firstround interview panel to go through those and identify people for first-round interviews. And then secondround interviews will come to the Executive Committee and then for a recommendation and final approval
by the Board, likely early next year.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that update. So that's, in a nutshell, the timeline. And just so you all
know, with regard to the first screening group, it's Don Ronyak. It's-- is it Paige? Is that her name, Paige?
The recruiter. I asked Shelley Cook and Erik Davidson to represent the Board in that panel, and also John
McKay.
So they're going to take the-- so they'll sort all the resumes and applications for qualifications, make sure
they meet the minimums. They'll go to that screening panel. And then they'll do an initial sort. And then we'll
get to the final candidates to determine who we're going to interview. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So who does the first interviews? Is that committee, or the Executive Committee, orVINCE BUZEK: First, that committee does the first round.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And how many are you envisioning in a first round and second round?
VINCE BUZEK: The last I heard-- it was about a week ago-- there were over 30 applicants, 12 that had
made the screening cut. So there's at least 12 and, I'm guessing, by now, even more. So that we'll go
through that first screening. And I don't know. They could all come through. Or a smaller universe of them
come through. Hard to say.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And then they trim it down to three or four or something for the Executive Committee
to interview? Is that the-VINCE BUZEK: I don't think there's a number that's required. I mean, if you had 10 fantastically qualified
people, they'd all come through to us [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I mean, it sounds like you've got a minority of Board members on the initial
interview panel. Is that what you want?
VINCE BUZEK: That's what I wanted, yeah. And I picked two very strong Board members. I'm not
concerned with their [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: But there'd be three other-- two HR and John. In other words, it's not the Board
choosing?

VINCE BUZEK: Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: And I saw Debra's hand come up. I think we're thinking the same thing. No, the
interview panel is going to consist of two Directors, so Directors Cook and Davidson, and John McKay. HR
participates. The recruiters will be there at the interview. But they're not making the selection.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: So-- yeah, I'm sorry. I didn't make that clear enough. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. Thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. All I wanted to add, Mr. Chair, is, yes, HR is there to ensure that we are adhering
to Equal Employment Opportunity, to ensure that the same questions are being answered of all candidates,
due to the fact that I said it's Equal Employment Opportunity. So they will not be voting on candidates.
VINCE BUZEK: Right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. That's all I needed.
VINCE BUZEK: Anybody else? Any other questions on that? No? So, get ready because interviews are
going to be coming up in the next, probably, 30 days or so. Be interesting to see who those candidates
might be.
So finally, for our discussion on amended delegation of authority in competitive selection. So, I understand
that our discussion here may be limited legally because it is continued through the Board agenda-- it was
continued to do a date certain. So the real time for discussion is going to be at the Board meeting.
In your packet was the updated delegation of authority, with some comments from General Counsel.
General Counsel and General Manager and First Vice Chair and I met about a month ago and really went
through it line by line and talked about some of the things. So some of these additions take into
consideration the things we talked about. I know there may be some other discussion at the Board meeting
about some of the changes.
Overall, I'm pretty OK with this. I think there may be one thing I want to talk about. And that's the $200,000
amendment thing and having that not apply to the state federal lobbying contracts, seeing as that was what
really brought us to this place. Other than that, I'm OK with the changes proposed by the General Counsel.
But we'll discuss those more at the Board meeting.
Anybody have anything they want to say? And General Counsel, I mean, are we OK to talk about our
thoughts on this draft at this time?

MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm just double-checking the packet because I didn't think- and maybe Tai-Shrae can confirm-- I didn't think we added the amendments that you and Director
Guissinger are going to be offering.
VINCE BUZEK: No, no, no, we did not.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Because we haven't finalized that stuff anyway. So no.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. So there are amendments. So what's in the Board packet right now are the
amendments that were previously offered. And then the discussion was postponed until this month's Board
meeting. And then I understand that you, Chair, and, maybe, Director Guissinger are going to be offering
some amendments to those proposed amendments.
VINCE BUZEK: Right.
MELANIE SNYDER: And those are going to get circulated-VINCE BUZEK: Not too many.
MELANIE SNYDER: --to the Board.
VINCE BUZEK: So just remember, do not let the perfect be the enemy of the good. We've been sitting on
this for months. I really want this done. So cool. And I think, ultimately, one of my goals was to get this,
ultimately, into a bylaw change. And that's where we really need to fine-tune it. So First Vice Chair
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Did you say that you would want amendments from the Chair and me in time
to circulate them to the Board, Melanie? Or did I misunderstand that?
MELANIE SNYDER: So it's up to you and the Chair. The last document that I think the Chair is referencing
incorporates the comments that you had, Director Guissinger, and the Chair had after meeting with GM and
CEO Johnson and I. So I circulated those back in August. And I don't believe any changes were made to
those. But I will leave that to the Chair. But yes, my understanding was that the Chair was going to work
with Board staff to get those proposed amendments circulated to the full Board in advance of the Board
meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything we have that we want to-- the other thing-- I agree with Vince on the
$200,000, with respect to the lobbying teams, that it's too high for that contract. And the other thing was the
last-- and I didn't look at it today, but the last item-- it had three different times where it had to be significant
and substantial. And I think I thought that was worth looking at. But maybe, Vince, you and I can put our
heads together on those.

VINCE BUZEK: I looked at that. And we can talk more about that. But Melanie, I guess my question for you
is, because we continued it to a-- it came out of Executive Committee and was continued to the-- well, went
to a Board meeting, got continued to another Board meeting. Are we able to propose additional
amendments prior to discussion with the full Board? Or do we need to wait till then to propose the
amendments from the floor?
MELANIE SNYDER: So thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, you need to wait to formally propose the amendments
and discuss and deliberate on those. If you wanted to have a high-level conversation today, obviously, it's
not part of our agenda as a recommended action, so this committee wouldn't be taking action. But if you
wanted to discuss those now, that would be perfectly appropriate. You'd still need to offer a formal
amendment at the Board meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. OK. Gotcha. Yeah, so getting back to any amendments change orders or exercise
of options to renew or extend any such exclusions exceeding $200,000 was added. And I think I'd like to
continue to exempt from that the local, state, and federal lobbying contracts because, obviously, that's
something that the Board is critically interested in. So, I think we can exempt those contracts from that
threshold. But other than that, I'm good with that.
And then the other one was consultant services for any major studies and analyses that may result in
significant modification to the agency's current framework and where the product of the consultant's work
will be presented to the Board for approval, adoption, or for consideration in connection with significant
agency-wide Board policy decisions.
And I think the question there is, how do you define major and significant? And I think we can get too far
into the weeds to try to do that. If there's a way to do it that makes sense, great. But otherwise, I don't object
to that, no. Maybe, Lynn, you and I can talk some more about ideas.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. That's fine. It just seemed like adding it in three times made it really, really a big
deal. Maybe we could just say that issues would be brought to the Executive Committee or something like
that for decision.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We can talk.
VINCE BUZEK: We can talk. Yeah, let's talk more about that. Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. It just occurred to me that I do not know what Rubin Brown's
contract is for internal audit. But it seems to me that any of those contracts, when they come up for either
renewal or rebidding for competitive purposes, that those decisions be made by the Audit Committee itself,
as opposed to-- or maybe even in consultation. I guess I would ask General Counsel Snyder to weigh in on
that.

MELANIE SNYDER: I think we could-- so the current proposed amendments do have the full Board
approving both the internal and external audit services contracts. And I guess we'll have to see what ends
up happening with the proposed amendments to the internal audit function charter and the Audit Committee
charter.
But I think the intent, from what I was hearing from the ad hoc committee's discussion on Monday, was that,
generally, the Audit Committee would make recommendations for full Board approval for several
[INAUDIBLE]. So, for example, a contract.
PEGGY CATLIN: I guess my point was, do we want to be explicit about that in this particular recommended
action-- that we want to make sure that that's mentioned, as well?
MELANIE SNYDER: Potentially. Why don't I-- I will make a note of that. And then let's see what ends up
happening with the timing, so with the internal audit charter.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm fine with that. I just didn't want there to be some ambiguity there as to who makes the
decision for those contracts.
MELANIE SNYDER: Right. Understood.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, in this delegation, clearly, the Board makes the determination of who gets the
contract for internal and external audit services. And because those can be significant contracts, I think the
full Board should be the ones to say OK on that. And if the Audit Committee wants to recommend, that's
great. I don't think the recommendation process needs to be part of the final decision in this document.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I was only just throwing it out there. The other thought is that there may be times
when we do hire outside expertise for a particular audit that may fall under that threshold.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. [INAUDIBLE]
PEGGY CATLIN: But I'm willing to wait. I just wanted to bring that up.
VINCE BUZEK: Good point. Anybody else have anything they want to throw out there with regard to this
document? No? Good. Next is other matters. Are there any other matters to come before this committee?
No? Hey, GM CEO Johnson, I see you're still here.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Of course, I'm here.
VINCE BUZEK: [LAUGHS] Kidding. Director Whitmore and I received a copy of a letter that was sent to
you from Catherine Sanders, Deputy Executive Director of Smart Commute, regarding an incident that
occurred at the N line last Thursday when she was doing outreach for RTD. And it was a letter very
complimentary to the N line staff.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: You helped her. And so, I just wanted to say I thought that was really great. That was good
of our N line folks to help her out and good that she actually took the time to write a complimentary
[INAUDIBLE]. Go ahead, GM CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much, Mr. Chair. I am in receipt of that correspondence and shared
that with the N line leadership team and included those individuals for their heroic efforts. And for everyone's
edification, the individual was at an event, and it appeared as if someone taken her cell phone. And our
employees went above and beyond to ensure that they could retrieve said cell phone. And she and I had a
pleasant exchange. And those individuals are being recognized accordingly.
VINCE BUZEK: Good.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And I had the opportunity to engage with them, as I said, electronically, as well. So,
thank you very much for broaching that, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Great, really great. Yeah, it's always good to hear stories like that. So, seeing as there are
no other matters to come before the Executive Committee, I will entertain a motion to adjourn. Director
Whitmore, second by.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sloan.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan? Any objections to the adjournment? Seeing none. We're adjourned at 12:36
PM. Thank you all for your hard work. Thanks. Bye-bye.

