2020-12-10 EC
PEGGY CATLIN: It happens.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hi, Doug.
PEGGY CATLIN: You're on mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're muted. Hi, Vince.
VINCE BUZEK: Hola.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hola.
PEGGY CATLIN: Hola.
VINCE BUZEK: I was trying to find the mute. How are you all?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good and you?
VINCE BUZEK: Fine, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: There's some others on there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, Doug's talking, but we're not hearing.
PEGGY CATLIN: I heard him.
DOUG TISDALE: I got my snack basket for this evening, John and Barbara. So the deliveries are out
there and making the rounds.
PEGGY CATLIN: You got your what?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What's this?
DOUG TISDALE: This is our snack basket for the get together this evening that the Board office arranged
to deliver to each of us.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, how nice, except that I'm in South Dakota.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That is not a true statement. It only-- that is not a true statement. It only went to
the new Directors, the returning Directors, and Debra Johnson.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ah.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh. Well, I'll be happy to share-- well, I guess I can't. OK, never mind.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We did send an email out saying that we will be doing a farewell and a welcome
toast, so that everybody could just have something in front of them to do a toast with at that point.
PEGGY CATLIN: And is that at 5:30?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Twist our arm.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Just the regular Teams meeting. Barbara, is it Teams or Zoom?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's Teams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: This is Director Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, ma'am?
VINCE BUZEK: Who?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska, go ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, I just wanted you to know that I'm present.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, thank you, ma'am. All right. Well, I'm going to call this meeting to order.
This is the executive committee for 12/10/2020. It is 11:34 AM. The first thing on our agenda is roll call.
So I see Director-- let's see, I see Secretary Buzek, First Vice Chair Catlin, Second Vice Chair Cook, and
Treasurer Guissinger, and myself as Chair. Additionally, I see Director Tisdale, and I'm trying to see the
other folks on here. Director Folska is on the line. I see this-NATALIE MENTEN: Director Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I'm sorry, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then, who has the last two digits of 72?
SPEAKER: Of what?
NATE MINOR: Nate Minor, CPR.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thanks, Nate. And the last two digits of 40?
MELANIE SNYDER: Hi, Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder, and I'm here with Debra Johnson as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Last digits of 61?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sorry, that's me. This is Marjorie Sloan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Elect.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I'm going to be quiet. The last two digits of 11, please?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, that's Director Folska. Sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Thanks, Director Folska. And the last two digits of 58?
JOHN: That's me again, John.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. And then 84?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten. Well, it could be, also, Lewis. We both end in 84, as I recall. But I know I'm
on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're on. [LAUGHS] Well, I only see one 84-- so I guess that's just you-NATALIE MENTEN: That'd be me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --Director Menten. OK, great. Thank you. Well, thank you, everybody, for
attending. The first thing I'd like to do is the December meeting agenda review. Is everybody OK with
this? I want to make sure that we can move this forward. Do I have a motion to move the December
Board meeting agenda forward?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: Second. Shelley.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any discussion?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I submitted a request Wednesday before noon to add a agenda item. It is not an
action item. It is a information agenda item. And that is for a update on the state audit and the risk
assessment. Did that get onto the agenda?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is on the agenda. Miss McManus, can you just share that with us?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, we did republish with the CRS language for the Executive Committee to
move forward that on the agenda for the Board meeting on the 15th.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.

NATALIE MENTEN: I do want to make sure whether I need to submit something or not. Director Walker,
who is originally listed as one of the sponsors of this request decided he did not want to sponsor it. So
that should include myself as main sponsor, then also, Director Lewis and Director Mihalik.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah-NATALIE MENTEN: And if that needs to be modified, I wanted to point that out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, no, we did have that information, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. Thank you. That's the only question I had on the agenda, then. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Any other questions or comments about the December
agenda? Hearing none, I have first Vice Chair Catlin is the movement and Second Vice Chair Cook as
the second. All in favor for the adoption, please signify by-- you can raise your hand so I can see you. Oh,
good, it's unanimous. Thank you.
All right so what I'd like to do now-- here, let me move back up. These virtual meetings are so much fun,
navigating all these computers. OK, the next thing is under Other Matters is the review of the 2021
meeting calendar. And Miss McManus, can you just kind of walk us through that piece of it, please?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. This is not the first time that you've seen this draft. We've circulated a
couple of times. There have been some shifts made to it with some of the APTA conferences, but from
what we understand, they may change again, so we did not make those changes on this calendar.
We, along with the proposed change of the committee structure that are being reviewed in the Tuesday,
December 15 meeting by Director Cook and Director Tisdale, there may be changes in the dates of some
of these meetings as we move forward, either changing the structure or bringing forward a pilot for the
year 2021. So we're asking for approval to move forward based on what we know now, but with the idea
that there could be some significant changes in the structure going into 2021.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And then, in terms of the APTA conferences, are they thinking
they might try to re-institute those, particularly in March? I think that's traditionally our legislative
conference.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. And I know that some of the smaller type conferences, they were talking
about doing some sort of a virtual event that would be perhaps shorter in term as well as the cost.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we're keeping our eye on-- I'm sorry?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, this is Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. And just
a point of clarity as it relates to the APTA TRANSform conference, President and CEO Paul Skoutelas
sent out communique earlier this week as it relates to the APTA TRANSform conference and the expo, it
has now been moved from March to September. So therefore, in reference to the October date that's
reflected here, it will not be taking place in Philadelphia because we are shifting once again from March to
September, which will be a shorter conference from, I believe, September 9, so Wednesday through a
Friday. And so that communique was just disseminated, so it probably preceded the preparation of this
packet. So I just wanted to call that out for all of you all. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. All right-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes? Director Tisdale, please.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. If I may just expand upon that a little bit, APTA
and our Legislative Committee meeting yesterday, we announced that the DC legislative trip for APTA will
be May 18 through 21. So May 18 through 21 for the APTA Ledge Conference.
And Ms. Johnson is correct that the TRANSform Conference will be in September. It will be in Anaheim
because we were supposed to have the Transform conference in Anaheim last year-- or I'm sorry, this
year-- and then, due to the pandemic, rescheduled. And we stayed at the same venue in Anaheim. So
that will be going forward in September of 2021. So those are the two conferences of which I am aware,
relative to our APTA scheduling Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Based on those two amendments, we will make those changes and the
appropriate changes around them and move this calendar forward for further discussion as we move into
2021. Do you need us to do a vote on moving this forward, Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. It's just yays or nays.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'm OK with it. Is everybody OK with that? I'm not-- OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Peggy has their hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes? Director Catlin, or First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think, given the uncertainty, maybe if we can call it-- maybe
not a conditional, but a tentative calendar or something, just so we-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We will keep it in a draft form.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, perfect. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I think it might be nice to have a footnote that says these dates might
change based on what's happening, just so people know that it's not a firm thing, I think, is great.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Great. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. Our next item is the Strategic Planning Retreat, and there's three
items-- the facilitator, the format, and the dates. And what I'd like to do is, First Vice Chair Catlin, myself,
Ms. Johnson and Barbara McManus has had a meeting to start talking about the whole plan for the yearly
traditional Board Retreat and then Board SLT Retreat, and is it time for a change, do we need to look at
these very differently? So I would ask the three of you to help me move this forward. So Peggy, let me
start with you about what we're thinking about is we're moving forward after listening to all Board
members talk about how it's been done in the past.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, let me see if I can recall all we talked about. I think that General Manager CEO
Debra Johnson had some really good thoughts about putting out an RFP for a facilitator that was not
really a facilitator but more of a strategist, so that we can work collectively as a Board and SLT in really
defining a much more strategic approach to the Board and staff moving forward. And so I know Barbara's
working with Debra on crafting an RFP that really talks about those skill sets as opposed to simply a
facilitator. So I'm going to turn it over to her, to let-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Peggy. I didn't mean to put you on the spot, but I
thought it was a very, very good conversation about thinking outside of the box and looking at things
differently. And so, General Manager, if I could ask you to talk a little bit about what your vision was as we
talked about this.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sure. Thank you very much, Madam Chair, for the opportunity to speak more
closely-- or more closely-- I should say more directly about the whole genesis behind the integrated

retreat. So basically what we're trying to work towards is ensuring that we are constructing an
organization focused on outcomes, really, organizational excellence. So when we think about it holistically
it's, how do we accomplish these things?
So we want to ensure that there's Board success, and there's management success, and there's an
overlay with the success outcomes. And we look to ensure that we're intersecting the Board success by
looking at clear actions to producing outcomes, in turn prioritizing and tracking metrics to monitor said
progress. And so in this all, how do we go about doing it?
So what I'm envisioning is basically looking at through the helpful inside of a consultant that focuses on
performance management and organizational development from the vantage point of looking at, why are
we doing it, the passion for the work that focuses on our mission, our vision, and our values. And then it's
the what, right? Measurable, strategical outcomes, that is the clarity of what we're trying to achieve.
And then, how do we go about doing that? By establishing a work plan, milestones, and budget, and
that's the clear work plan to realize the success. And then, collectively, the who? That's us that I've
referenced, because then there's no-- it's not ambiguous as it relates to the ownership of these tasks, and
our blueprint sets up up, because then we'd have strategic pillars, then we understand what the tactics,
we have budget that ties into that that will enable us to really have a forward-looking outlook as relates to
quality performance metrics and results for reporting.
So the overarching message I want to leave with you all is basically that the retreat should be focused on
outcomes driving organizational focus, and the Board role in all of this is the clarity of the outcomes,
empowerment to myself and the senior management leads team to determine how, and then having
clear, prioritized metrics to monitor progress of success. So basically by doing it in that manner as
opposed to just saying we're having an independent retreat, this gives us the blueprint as we move
forward to optimizing efficiencies, our performance, and we're all working toward a common goal, and
there is no disparity as it relates to what we are trying to achieve. So thank you very much for the
opportunity to explain my thoughts as it relates to leveraging a strategic session that could be of great
benefit to the organization, holistically.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, General Manager-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, Director Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. That is so exciting, Debra. I really appreciate that. And so Ms. McManus,
I'm going to give you a name of an organization that you may put on your list when you're ready to send
out the RFP that might be useful. And it's called Centers for Effective Organizations. I think the CEO or
Executive Director of that that would be Ed Lawler III.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So noted. Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah it might be the Center not Centers, but maybe its Center for Effective
Organizations. Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska, are they in Denver or are they national?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You know what? They are in Southern California. And they're pretty unbelievable, to
be quite honest with you. But because of the pandemic, I don't think it really matters.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Yeah. Everything is so different. The other thing we talked about was
the timing. Do we do this in February and March? We actually, by bylaws can do it by the end of the first

quarter, which would be towards the end of March is something that we're kind of looking at as well. First
Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Oops, unmute. Debra Johnson also shared with us that she has some experience with
some groups that are expert in this arena as well. And so I think if other folks on this call have some other
ideas as did Director Folska, then we might get a pretty competitive response. So just if any of you have
thoughts about good strategists or strategic firms, strategic planning firms, and it'd be great to know
sooner than later, because we need to get the RFP out pretty quickly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. And Ms. McManus, can you talk about the RFP of what your timeline
is?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I would like to get it on the street as soon as possible so that we can have
everything set up by mid-January. I know Debra has reached out to some of her fellow CEOs of other
agencies and folks that she's worked with in the past with other strategic facilitators. We have a list that is
put together that we will add this new organization to, requested by Director Folska.
Debra has reviewed the listing that we have already. Some of the folks she knows, and I don't know if that
may get added to based on some of the feedback that we get in looking for some scopes that we will be
reviewing that have been successful at other agencies in doing a strategic event as we're proposing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. And so-DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair? Oh, sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I apologize. I'm sorry. Using these different platforms, I don't want to make it seem as
if I'm talking over you. So thank you very much for the opportunity just to speak really quickly.
Recognizing that Barbara did compile a list of prospective vendors, I would say as we work with this,
ensuring that it is a level playing field and we're encouraging opportunity, we leverage procurement
because I'm sure we have registered vendors as well. So I just wanted to ensure that everybody
assembled would recognize and understand that we would leverage our procurement practices as it
relates to that.
And then, more specifically, in a follow-up to a conversation, I know I've heard references to the bylaws.
And with that as a backdrop, did have a conversation with General Counsel Melanie Snyder as it relates
to that. So we may have an ability to have slight adjustments, because in relationship to leveraging an
RFP to ensure that we have viable participation, we may be limiting ourselves due to the fact with the
time frame that has been referenced. So I just wanted to put that out there and would defer to General
Counsel Snyder should she have any additional input as it relates to what I just conveyed. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: No, there's no-- the only additional input-- I thought I heard that there was a
suggestion that the planning retreat had to be done by March. And the bylaws don't actually provide for
that. But they do recognize that the planning retreat really can have impacts on the budget planning cycle.
So that's really the consideration.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And thank you so much, General Counsel. And that's where I was going when we
talked about having strategic priorities and having pillars and tactics that tie-in to develop a

comprehensive budget. It would put us in a better place as we look at outcomes that would ensure a
success for the organization, holistically. So thank you very kindly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, both. So we will be getting back to all of you
regarding the dates and the RFP going out. So if you'll just hold on, we'll let you know as we learn more.
But I think that we have the opportunity to really set our agenda very differently in a more creative way.
So we'll be back in touch with you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I would like to ask whether the committee would be interested or open in
inviting our internal auditor to the retreat?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what, Director Menten? I don't know. We're not there yet.
If we could get back with you on that because we're just in the planning stages. We're just at the very
beginning. Traditionally, it's been SLT, and that would be something we'd just need to stop and look at
that. If I could get back to you, I'd appreciate that.
NATALIE MENTEN: That would be fine. In light of certain things, I think it would be in the best interest, as
it might align those departments with the agency. So I'll leave it at that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Duly noted. Thank you, Director Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madame Chair? I had my hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: This does not relate to the internal auditor. But I know I personally would like to see a
draft scope of work. I don't want to put any additional time on it, but I just think it would be nice to take a
look at the draft before it went out, just to ensure that it's not the same old, same old, that we really are
focusing on strategy and that skill set. So I would appreciate seeing it. I don't know if others on the
committee would as well, or others on the Board, but-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. No. Agreed. Everybody's saying yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Uh-huh. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And I'm glad that Director Catlin brought that up, because I think that's a
very good idea and would just sort put in a placeholder here for looking at whether some of the committee
discussions. Because depending upon how we go after feedback from the Board Tuesday and later, we
may wish to integrate parts of that committee restructuring into the retreat planning. So just wanted to say
that, and I'm glad we're going to get a chance to look at the scope. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would just ask-- and I think I mentioned this in our earlier meeting, but I want to
reiterate it again in this committee, so that the folks that are not part of the Executive Committee that are
attending, what our intention is. We have asked CEO Johnson to speak to this same conversation in her
General Manager's report at the Board meeting, so that all of the Directors are on the same page, those
that are on this call and those that are not.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I'm glad you brought that up. I would like to talk about the Board
meeting and the General Manager's report to the Board. As you know, part of her 120-day plan is to give

a report or an update to the Board by December 31. And the December 15 meeting is our last official
Board meeting of the year.
So I know that the calendar shows there's a GMOC meeting scheduled for the Thursday after the Board
meeting, but it seems to me that might be redundant since the General Manager will be speaking to the
entire Board on the 15. Is the Executive Committee OK with that? OK, I'm seeing head nods.
First Vice Chair? OK. So Ms. McManus, if we could maybe cancel the GMOC meeting just based on the
fact that we will be receiving the information from our CEO on December 15.
BARBARA MCMANUS: With great joy.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [LAUGHS] Yeah. I know everybody likes all these meetings. All right. Does
anybody else have any questions or comments to come before this Executive Committee?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I have a couple of questions, perhaps, three. This pertains to the-- first of all,
looking at the language for the Executive session for Tuesday, I have a question regarding-- I'm bringing
up the PDF here, but it clearly states that-- I'm sorry, I'm getting it before me. I'm sorry, bear with me just
a moment, multiple PDFs open.
So it clearly states the executive session regarding the state audit. And I might have another question
about that. But it also states under the second part, "consideration of related personnel matters". But what
the actual request was that was signed by myself, Shontel Lewis and Director Ken Mihalik was related to
the risk assessment. And I am unclear where we are with that.
And I would like Anne-Marie Heslop, Isaac-Heslop to be able to speak to that. So I want to make sure,
even though you have approved the agenda, now that I have this language in front of me and I know what
we wrote on our request for an agenda item, that that's clearly where we're going.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, could you say the last part again, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I just want to be very clear going into Tuesday that the second item requested for
this determined Executive session is a discussion of the risk assessment, whereas right now it lists that
it's consideration of related personnel matters.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Legal Counsel, can I ask you to respond to that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So
Director Menten, without sharing any confidential and privileged conversation, the description that is
provided for the bases, the legal bases for the executive session, all three of those are implicated based
on the things that you were asking for a discussion about. I think, though, I'm hearing maybe a different
piece from you-- and I could be wrong, but I'm hearing that you're also wanting now to have the Internal
Auditor present the draft risk assessment. Is that what I just heard you say?
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, the main topic, or main second topic, was the update on the risk assessment.
So in no way did the request include a request for personnel matters. There were two subjects, one was
update on the state audit and then update on the risk assessment.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. And Director Menten, I'm happy to also talk with you about this offline, but I
want to be able to preserve the privilege and the reason that we're going to be in executive session. So
what I'm saying is that I believe that's still an accurate basis. But I do want to be able to preserve the
confidentiality of that conversation.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I will accept having an offline conversation, just noting for the record right now at
this point in time that our request did not pertain to a personnel discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Then, I'll continue on. Going back to the state audit report, now, in the first draft
that we've got in October, it noted that certain parts of-MELANIE SNYDER: Just maybe-- Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Point of order? Point of order. Yes, please, General Counsel. This is a
public meeting, and we were bound by the state auditor to come in and discuss this.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: I just want to remind everyone that the state audit findings right now are in draft
form. They are confidential. They cannot be disclosed or talked about in any format in any forum. There's
actually criminal consequences. It is a misdemeanor for disclosing that information. So I'm asking that we
don't talk about anything related to the draft findings right now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am.
NATALIE MENTEN: Madam Chair, this is Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: So before I was interrupted, where I was going with this is that the state auditor in
their first draft did have a cover page that speaks to the confidentiality. And what it speaks to in paragraph
two is related to parts of-- yeah, if you want to bring it, go ahead and you can bring it up. But basically,
when they opened up by saying that CRS 2 3 122 3 12310 22 10525.2 10 209, which are related to a
misdemeanor and fine of $500.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: $500, yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. None of those are RTD. That's the Energy Improvement District, Historical
Gaming District, the Health Benefit Exchange, Community Center Board's, health care. Those don't
pertain to RTD. So if there's a different citation that would apply, fine.
But I am not talking about releasing, as noted in the first paragraph, which is, I am not going to speak
about recommendations, comments, or narrative statements. What I want to speak to right now and get
some answers to are the process. So I don't think I'm outside of any of these comments, although section
two as far as I know, is completely void, non-applicable.
So with that in mind now, what I would like to understand better is how we got to the point we got to.
Because when we had a discussion in an executive session with Jenny Page from the State Auditor, and
she followed up with an email because we were going to-- we were asked if we would like to submit
comments, and it was clearly noted in the email we would have a second opportunity to do that, also. And
the expected time line was that around Thanksgiving, the second draft would be sent to RTD.
Well, around Thanksgiving I did not get any second draft. And as I dig through this, I want to make sure I
understand this properly that a second draft was sent to RTD, but it just was not shared with all the Board
Directors. It was only shared as of yesterday when I started to look into this. Is that correct?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I'm going to ask Debra Johnson to respond to that, please?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. So in reference to receiving information from the
State Auditor's office, in my capacity as a General Manager and CEO, a confidential link was sent to me

that contained the information, recognizing that we needed to have responses. I conferred with staff that
had been working on this and talked with the Chair.
And so in relationship to me receiving that, since it was a link-- and it had a link that was specifically
directed towards me and one that I couldn't forward, I retained that information, and the staff and the
individuals that were noted on said email basically also received independent links. And in the process
and having an exit interview with the State Auditor's office, we were specifically instructed on what we
should be doing in relationship to the responses, hence, we adhered to that process. So as relates to
what General Counsel just provided us from a legal aspect, is exactly what we did in relationship to what
we were instructed Thank you, very kindly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. General Counsel? Any additionals.
MELANIE SNYDER: No, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right, next?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so that I can understand, there was a follow-up draft sent to RTD at some point
in November?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: CEO-DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I'm trying to find dates specifically in reference to that. I don't have it off the top
of my head, so if you can give me a second I will look to see what date that could have been, considering
that there was a special link and with that I had to go into an encrypted place to get it. So I need to check
that. Hold on for a second, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: While you're doing that, I'm going to go ahead and go to Director Buzek
who's had his hand up, and then Ms McManus. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, thanks. It's kind of off the current topic, but I was getting back to the Strategic
Planning Retreat. And I know we talked about, with regard to the date issue, what the latest reasonable
date for a retreat would be to not impact or negatively impact budget discussions and issues? And I don't
remember what that was. Does anyone recall what that timeline was?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: My understanding is that have it by the end of March.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But I think I was hearing it correctly. So we could get back with you on that.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, thanks. That's all I have. Thanks. Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I just want to put out there that I-- while the CEO, Debra Johnson, is looking
for that communication from November, we did get a communication-- I don't know what date it was-- it
probably was the one that you're referencing. And everything that has come to me from the state has
come to me blind copied with all of the other Directors.
Now, I did not get a copy of the link at that point in time. And in terms of forwarding anything that I would
have gotten, if it had a link, if it wasn't sent to you directly, you would not have been able to get into it. So I
just want to say that was the process moving forward, and if that changed along the way and I should
have forwarded something that I did not, then my apologies. But I did not get that as something that I
should have moved forward.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam Chair, Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Please go ahead, Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I was just wondering if Madam Chair or Ms. McManus
could kindly tell me if the Executive Committee received that correspondence from Jenny Page.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are you talking about the correspondence that the General Manager just
referred to?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. So the follow-up draft audit that then would be requesting a response, is it true
that the Executive Committee did receive that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, not to my understanding. No.
VINCE BUZEK: Nope. I didn't get it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So can you kindly tell me on the Executive Committee who did? Because I'm aware
of at least two members who did. And I don't recall anybody being the designee to liaison between Jenny
Page individually, nor to respond on behalf of the entire Board without the Board's knowledge.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Director Folska, on the first audit that came out of Jenny Page came to
me as the Chairman of the Board. And what I asked was that it be sent to the Executive Committee as
the appointed leadership of the Board of Directors to review so we could move it forward to the entire
Board. So I really-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So you never moved it forward. I'm sorry, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We did. We actually did.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You did not.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Everybody then received it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You did not. Nobody has seen your responses. They were sent in a few days ago.
Nobody saw that. Nobody agreed on that. And nobody elected this Executive Committee to do that
without talking to the rest of the Board.
10 members of the Board are unaware of what you did, or even what the response was. We didn't get it
until yesterday. The draft from Jenny Page, we don't even know what you said to them. Where is that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska. So when we got the original audit report, we sent it out to
the Board to review to make comments. And then I asked Second Vice Chair Cook and First Vice Chair
Catlin to take a look at the two components that the auditor asked the Board to respond to specifically,
and they did. They looked at the internal audit component as well as the Fair Box Recovery.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, Madam Chair, as a reminder, please don't' talk about-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, no, no, no, no, no. Pardon me. What you just said was asked the Board to
respond. Not Second Vice Chair or First Vice Chair, the Board. The Board hasn't even seen it until after
the response was done by the deadline. When you had it in your possession around Thanksgiving and
never bothered to communicate it with the Board as a whole. And as far as I know, we still operate like
that. I think this is outrageous.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Actually, I would disagree with you. I didn't have it. I just, I got it very, very
recently as well. But General Counsel, I heard you. Did you want to add anything?
MELANIE SNYDER: No. I just wanted to remind everyone to please not talk about the substance or even
the topics of the audit.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And as a follow-up-- this is General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson, and I went
back to my email and I found that I received a notification from the State of Colorado that it was a secure

site in reference that they were basically providing me a link to activate a password. And that was on
Friday, November 20. So it was the Friday before the Thanksgiving holiday.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much. And that's how we've always done it, Ms. Johnson. Jenny
Page sends everybody on the Board-- that's the standard process that the board has been operating
under. And frankly, after the fact, that is when the Board received it with that same thing yesterday from
Jenny Page. I think it was yesterday. Yeah, Wednesday.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So the other thing that I would just mention on this call is that the last
Executive Committee meeting I did ask Peggy, First Vice Chair Catlin and Second Vice Chair Cook to
work on this. So it was a public designation and there were other Board members on this call at the last
Executive Committee. So it was not done privately, it was done in a public open forum, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And with all due respect, it should have been shared to the entire Board. And it
wasn't. And the responses were not shared with the entire Board at all.
We don't even know what they are. And I think that's a flagrant disregard for your duty. And as far as
transparency goes, I mean, I'm shocked. We have Secretary Buzek whose key thing is transparency, and
we don't have that. I'm so shocked that he didn't stand up and demand that everybody on the Board
should be included in that response.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Duly noted. Any other comments from any other Board
Directors? Oh.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale first, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: You're muted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, you're muted.
DOUG TISDALE: And that's because my computer is acting up and I'm not sure why. If I may, I think the
important thing to emphasize for the benefit of the Executive Committee and for the benefit of the full
Board is that the initial draft of the state audit was, in fact, delivered to, reviewed by, and discussed by the
Board in an executive session. Following that, there were many comments made at the time in that
executive session regarding various items in that confidential report.
There was also an invitation by the State Auditor for Board members to submit additional comments, not
locking everyone down with whatever they said on that particular Tuesday night. Those comments were
submitted, and I believe, as I recall-- and I apologize, I don't recall specifically-- they might have been
distributed through the Executive Committee or through the Board Office to the State Auditor or directly to
the State Auditor, but in any event, comments were made.
And I think there is a degree of confusion here that it would be good to dispel on the record regarding the
process, in that, yesterday, we did receive from the State Auditor's office a revised form of audit. The
question that has arisen, as I hear it-- and I'm hearing a lot of this just for the first time on this meeting-the question that has arisen is, was there an interim draft between that first draft that everybody received,
everybody reviewed, everybody commented on, and the next draft that the full Board got, which was
yesterday evening.
Was there a draft in between, and how was that circulated and responded to? I think that's the question
that I'm hearing. And it might be of benefit if someone with knowledge could respond to that specific
question about some interim draft between the first one and the one we just received yesterday. Thank
you, Madam Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. I did not receive any until this last one. So no, there wasn't in
the interim, to my knowledge. General Manager, is there one to your knowledge?
DEBRA JOHNSON: This is Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. No, there is none to my
knowledge.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. All right, Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Madam Chair. And I guess I just wanted to respond to Director Folska because
she called me out by name. As you just heard, there apparently was no interim response between these
two reports, and I am, was and am unaware of any such response. So it's hard to be transparent about a
negative. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I actually did respond to the initial request based on the first draft, on some
specific areas that I had had some questions about. And based on Chair Rivera-Malpiede's suggestion, I
did coordinate some of my personal, as an individual Board member responding to the State Auditor, I did
coordinate some of those responses with Second Vice Chair Cook, just because we had some questions
going back and forth.
But it was not an official Board response. It was my individual response as a Director, as was requested
by the State Auditor in our Executive Session. And Director Tisdale, I wanted to thank you for your
clarification. This was really based on the initial draft from the State Auditor. So thank you very much,
Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, let me look. I think I have someone else on here.
Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, thank you. I guess I'm confused now, too. I've provided a little information
like Director Catlin did that was just trying to help. But I'm wondering if we need to go back and look at
this and potentially even talk to the State Auditor about bringing the comments back and making sure
they got to the Board. My sense is that maybe there was something lost in translation that was not
intentional, but I guess I'm just wondering if there's a way to make sure we're addressing this correctly
and fix it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I just want to make sure-- every Board member was invited to respond to
Jenny Page. And I think that's what-- if anyone did that, they did that as a result of her request to all
Board members. And so I just want Director Folska to be assured that it appears that your indignation is
based on a false assumption, a false premise. So I hope that clarifies things for you. Thanks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: McManus. This is Barbara McManus.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Ms. McManus, please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: All of those requests were asked to be sent to the Board Office. We did compile
those and move them on as to the responses that we received.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So it seems we're in discovery stage with this, and I think it's unfortunate that we're
doing this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is, I agree.

NATALIE MENTEN: I am referring to a letter from Jenny Page, which was sent to us on October 28 at
10:25 AM. And in the letter from Jenny Page-- again, I'm talking about process here, so I don't feel that
this is a problem to discuss in this meeting. It's actually the place we should be discussing it.
But what it says is she was attaching the template for us to provide comments. She said, "Please email
me the consolidated comments by close of business Monday, November 2. She said, "Our goal is to send
out a draft audit report before Thanksgiving. And at that time, you'll have another opportunity to provide
feedback on the draft. We'll ask for RTD's draft written responses to the audit recommendations in midDecember."
So there are clearly-- there were two pieces here that the Board, because this was sent to all of us, that
we were expecting. And that was the draft audit report, which appears to have been sent to the agency
on November 20. And as stated, we were somewhat promised, let's say, or expected the ability to give a
second set of comments based on that draft. We have not received it.
And then I am under the understanding-- and let me make sure-- that the deadline to provide those
responses to the State Auditor was this last Tuesday, December 8. So I'm looking at December 8. So
going back to Director Tisdale's question, I am curious whether the confidential documents sent
November 20 is what matches the PDF that we received at a little after 5:00 PM yesterday.
And honestly, the reason I believe we got the 5:00 PM document yesterday is because yesterday
afternoon-- early afternoon-- I called and left a message for Jenny Page stating I was pretty confused
about where our second draft was and why we had not yet received it. That is why, in my gut, I believe we
all got sent, directly, the link from Jenny Page is because it didn't happen prior to that.
So going into-- I want to make sure this doesn't get lost-- since we appears we're-- I think-- please confirm
if I'm wrong. I don't want to be wrong. Please confirm that the deadline for the responses was this last
Tuesday. And I 100% expect that we will get those responses sent to us so that we can digest those
before Tuesday's Executive session. So could I get some clarification on these different points?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. So General Manager, what is your understanding of this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much. Debra Johnson, General Manager and Chief Executive
Officer. In reference to the question that was put forward by Director Menten, we were requested to have
draft responses to the State Auditor by Tuesday December 8. Those responses were transmitted, a
response acknowledgment was received, saying that the State Auditor would receive-- sorry, not receive,
I stand corrected-- would review and coordinate with us should there be additional clarifying information
needed.
And so at this juncture, I, in the interest of full disclosure, I just received an email from the State Auditor's
office saying that our responses were good and there were just some clarifying questions as related to
dates. And we need to turn this around and have it back to the Auditor by noon on Tuesday, December
15. That email literally just came through when I was looking for the other information, when I did a
search for her name. So I haven't had the opportunity to go through and look at those questions. I just
saw the transmittal email stating what I just conveyed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. It-- thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to suggest that to respond to these, rather than
doing it shooting from the hip, and based on memory, and sometimes finding an email, let's take a
moment and reconstruct it and then submit a report to the Board about these questions, rather than just
try to respond now in a way that may not be complete or accurate.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I agree. First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. I forgot to lower my hand.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [LAUGHS] OK. So I-NATALIE MENTEN: So-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --think that we should construct the piece that shows the outline of exactly
what is occurred in the timeline with the audit. Director Menten, did I hear you again?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, because I wasn't really actually done. So what I would suggest is when we
explain to the State Auditor that a majority of the Board has not seen the responses-- we're not even clear
actually, we're not exactly sure right now as we're in a discovery state, who on the Board has seen the
responses-- that we ask for an extension. Because right now what I've just heard is that the Auditor
expects this follow-up response by noon on Tuesday the 15, when we as a Board as a whole have not
even discussed that and that will occur Tuesday, I expect after 7:00 PM, based upon-- maybe 6:30.
Clearly won't be before noon. So-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Ms. McManus-NATALIE MENTEN: I'm not happy at all about this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, that goes without-NATALIE MENTEN: This is baloney.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I would like to ask, also, that Ms. McManus provide a list of all the
Board members who did put in responses to Jenny Page's request for Board responses. I think that that
should be part of the official report that we send out as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then-- Menten, for the record-- so are we going to get-- if you look at a
normal auditor's formatting, it's going to have the recommendation section, so I'm not speaking to the
specifics here, but as in traditional, and historical, and normal audits, there is a section where there will be
a agree, a disagree, a partial agreement, disagreement, and then also a narrative. Are we going to get
that in advance of Tuesday's meeting, and will the General Manager be open to asking for an extension
so that the Board can review these agency comments? So that the Board can-- and ask for an extension,
even if it's to Wednesday of noon?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, thank you. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. At this
juncture, as I stated previously in my response, I have yet to go through in detail what those responses
were. If it is the pleasure of the Board and the direction in which you all so desire, collectively as a body,
to instruct me in my capacity to reach out to the State Auditor to ask for an extension, I am happy to do
so. However, I would be remiss to state that in relationship to what we have put forward, we could provide
said responses to the Board as soon as practicable so you all will have an opportunity.
Speaking in this forum, I don't want to delve too deeply and cross any lines as relates to some aspects. In
generalities, I don't necessarily believe a extension is warranted, but the concerns expressed by the
Board aren't lost on me. So that's my remark, and I defer to the Board for greater direction as relates to
the desire in an extension, for an extension. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Let's see, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I do understand the comment from General
Manager relative to being reluctant to request an extension unless there are extenuating circumstances.
And I think that the suggestion made by Director Menten that we ask the State Auditor if we could at least

wait until noon on Wednesday, a 24-hour extension on a process that has gone on for the last 12 months,
might not be unreasonable. I think just to allow-- and the important thing is-- to allow any concerns-- any
valid concerns-- by any Director to be addressed.
And I believe that will be done on Tuesday night. We could have some further explication of exactly what
was the timeline, and who saw what when, and so forth, and then just focus on the substance of what are
the responses, are there any concerns of those responses, can we get this done? And I think quite
honestly, a 24-hour reprieve would be appropriate under the circumstances. So I would encourage the
Executive Committee to consider that. Thank you, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I don't recall, but was not the letter from the State
Auditor sent to both the General Manager and to you, as Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: And so maybe the request for an extension, which I think may be reasonable to give the
whole Board an opportunity to to respond again if need be, or to take a look at the interim-- I haven't
looked at what came out last night-- but that's something that I think is within your purview as Chair. And if
the Executive Committee asks you to go ahead and ask for a 24-hour extension, I think, in the interest of
allowing the whole Board to have some time to look at it, that might be prudent.
I just want to say that I did respond to the initial-- I responded a couple of times just because I-- and I
hope I'm not disclosing too much, I actually did get a follow-up question from Jenny Page. And so I have
responded a couple of times. But I think other Directors need to have that same opportunity as Director
Guissinger suggested.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Treasurer Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just I agree that I'm feeling like there's a lot of confusion here and I'm part of it. I
mean, I'm confused as well because I think, answers did go out and I think there may have been some
oversight. I'm not sure about that, but let's ask for an extension. I'd ask for 48 hours just so we're not
rushing around, and make sure that we get Board comments, and could pass them in. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. So Director Catlin, your hand is still up.
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize. I think I've mastered the mute button, but I haven't mastered the virtual
hand button yet, so I apologize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Director Tisdale, your hand is still up, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: And I apologize. I think I've got static electricity here in the computer, because I took it
down and then it popped up spontaneously. My computer wants to speak more than I do. I apologize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: That's hard to believe.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [LAUGHS] All right. Well, thank you. Any other comments from Board
members? All right, hearing none, are there any other matters to come before this Executive Committee?
OK. I'm going to adjourn-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, please.
DOUG TISDALE: It's Director Tisdale. I'm just-- I beg your pardon, but I think there may be a lack of
clarity in this record. Is there a consensus, then, to request a brief extension on responses to the State
Audit report?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're right, Director Tisdale. My apologies. And I'd like to ask the Executive
Committee. I, for one, would like to move that we ask for an extension of 48 hours from the State Auditor
in order for the full Board of Directors to be able to provide comments into the audit as we send it forward
to the Board. All in favor, just raise your hand. And I see unanimous consent.
So we will do that. So that is being moved forward. Thank you, Director Tisdale.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, if I might?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
PEGGY CATLIN: And are we in agreement that that request should come from you as opposed from
Debra Johnson? I think that putting her on the spot in her new position would not be fair as to-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Agreed.
PEGGY CATLIN: --work with the State Auditor in the future.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, agreed.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think this is a Board issue. I think Staff has met its obligation through Debra's direction
and their responses. And as I understand it, since this is a whole Board issue I think that we need to own
it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. No, I agree. I absolutely agree with you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, General Manager, CEO Debra Johnson. I respect the comments that
have been made by Vice Chair Catlin as well as you, as the Chair. What I would offer up, considering that
I am the one that received that communique, that I would follow-up as it relates to the responses that
were submitted and basically include you once they communique in the sense that there has been a
request from the Board, and then do a handoff to you, because keeping in mind, as Staff, we are the point
of contact in relationship to this-- and that's not to usurp any authority that the Board has-- but don't want
there could be any confusion about the process and who was handling it as we go forward in relationship
to actually adhering to the 48-hour timeline in which we're requesting, because I want to ensure in my role
here that I am addressing the issues put forward from the Board, and feel as if it's my responsibility to
ensure, working in tandem with you, that that is submitted to the state in such a fashion that will address
legislative requirements. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. Anything further to come before this Executive Committee?
All right. Hearing none, it is now 12:39, and I like to call for the adjournment of the Executive Committee
on December 10. All in favor, raise your hands.
All opposed, who wants to stay more? All right, we are adjourned officially, 12:39. Thank you, ladies and
gentlemen.
SPEAKER 2: Thank you.

