2021- 02-09
Operations & Customer Service Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KATE WILLIAMS: The Operations and Customer Service: Committee will now come to order, chaired by
me. The Vice Chair is Director Rosenthal. We are convened as of 8:04 PM, Mountain Standard Time. I
would respectfully ask that everyone attending this meeting, mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak. As Director Catlin just reminded us, please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate
future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors and these committees will be held via Zoom and will
be audio and video record.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
possible on the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the
link to the Board of Directors page. As always, if you would like to be acknowledged during tonight's
proceedings, staff members and Board members, please raise your virtual hand, which you can find at the
bottom of the participants list and wait for me to call on you before proceeding to speak.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their hands to indicate that they would like to speak
by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star 6. I would like to note, for the
record, that all Directors are here, 15 present and accounted for. Also, would like to note that we are not
taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public who are interested in speaking directly
to the Board are encouraged to do so during the monthly Board meeting, which happens closer to the end
of the month. For future meeting dates, please refer to the Board's meeting portal located at rtd.iqm2.com.
We have two recommended actions on the agenda this evening. The first recommended action is the 2021
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee, known as the GMOC Charter. It's
recommended by the Chair of the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee
that the Board approve a motion to adopt the attached, revised committee charter. Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: Second, Shelley Cook.
KATE WILLIAMS: And who was the mover? Director Sloan?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ah, the Chair. The Chair. Is their staff input on this action item? OK. Hearing none, then
I will call on each of the members of the Board in turn, see if anybody would like to speak, and we'll go
around. Director Bouquet?
VINCE BUZEK: Raise your hand.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have no questions or comment
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm just going to go through relatively rapidly. Director Broom, I don't know if you are able
to speak. I see you in the attendees. OK. No? Sorry, Bob.
BOB BROOM: I'm here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh! Do you have anything you would like to say on this item?

BOB BROOM: No, I don't. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek? Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: [AUDIO OUT] concept behind this is just-- can you hear me?
KATE WILLIAMS: I can. [AUDIO OUT]]
VINCE BUZEK: OK. No, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. [CHUCKLES] Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Nothing for me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Nothing for me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No questions or comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Dishell?
[DOG BARKS]
BOBBY DISHELL: No questions or comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: He barked. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have nothing. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nothing for me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No questions or comments. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I have no questions or comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: And Command Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Ditto.
KATE WILLIAMS: And Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Double ditto.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Triple ditto. [CHUCKLES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Holy cow. I have no questions or comments, either. I'm going to ask Ms. Snyder if it's
possible, do I need to go around again and take a vote, or can I just ask if there's anybody who's opposed?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, it's appropriate to just ask that you have any one of
those. That's OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: If anyone is opposed, please speak now. Hearing no opposition, this will pass and move
forward. We have a second recommended action. As soon as I find all my paperwork, I will tell you what
the second recommended action is. And it is the First Amendment to the CEO/GM employment agreement,
reads as follows, The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee, mentioned
in the previous action, presents to the Board a motion to adopt a proposed Amendment to the Executive
Employment Agreement with Debra A. Johnson, executed on September 29, 2020, regarding the allotted
time to develop an agency strategic plan and the program for the evaluation of her performance. Do I have
a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved. Catlin.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.

BOBBY DISHELL: Second, Dishell.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Dishell and Director Catlin. Is there staff input? Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: [AUDIO OUT]] thanks. [AUDIO OUT]] but I do have input and would have had input on the
first one, but you asked for staff input. Nonetheless, this Amendment to the GMO/GM's employment
agreement [AUDIO OUT]] the timing of putting together a strategic plan and metrics for measurement
performance of the General Manager. General Manager Johnson's contract call [AUDIO OUT]]. because
we're kind of changing things midstream and really relooking at the process once we do our strategic
planning, we're going to need some extra time to have her [AUDIO OUT]] happen, along with Board input,
so that's the reason for the extension. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. And I apologize. You were cutting in and out, so I wasn't clear on the
previous motion what it was that you were trying to tell me, and I apologize. I will not-VINCE BUZEK: That's OK. It passed.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're not staff, so I apologize. OK. So if there's anyone who has questions or comments,
you could raise your virtual hand at this time, and I won't run through the whole alphabetical list. I see no
hands, therefore, I'm going to again ask if there is no opposition to this, and if there is, please speak now
or forever hold your peace. OK. Hearing no opposition to this motion at this time, we're going to pass it
forward with unanimous votes. If I didn't say, the last one also was unanimous. Please place your
microphones back on mute.
We have one discussion item on the agenda tonight. Our first discussion item is-- too many pieces of paper
[CHUCKLES]-- the discussion item is on the Ad Hoc Committee on Security Report and the status of that.
And I believe that Miss Johnson is going to speak to this item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So good evening, Madam Chair, and to all of you assembled. Debra Johnson, General
Manager and CEO of RTD. So thank you very much for the opportunity to provide a status report. And I
want to acknowledge Mike Meader and Chief Grado efforts on this. I want to be specific as to why I am
presenting this item this evening. Recognizing, during the course of my onboarding here in the organization,
that the Ad Hoc Committee had been convened, as related to taking a look at our security models.
And once I came into the organization and I had an opportunity to attend a couple of those meetings, I put
forward to the Chair, and also spoke with Director Lewis, as well as with staff, regarding my desire to see
a more heightened level of stakeholder engagement and involvement, and also, to ensure that we were
leveraging best practices from the transit industry. So with that, we basically approached this from the
vantage point, whereby I wanted to ensure that we were leveraging the American Public Transportation
Association and doing a peer review.
Recognizing that RTD, as we heard from our previous study session earlier this evening, has been an
organization that has turned into a multimodal and a multifaceted transportation organization, and want to
ensure that we are growing with that, in the sense of providing protective services, not just security. And so
with that, reached out to APTA on January 19, soliciting their help as it relates to taking a deep dive, relative
to what might be best and what might be best practices for us to leverage going forward, and I'm happy to
say, since we've put together this report, that on February 16, we're having a kick-off meeting with APTA.
And Director Lewis will be part of that, as well.
And the whole notion behind the peer-review, which you can find detailed in Board packet, page number
95, that basically, it's to have some peers within the industry give us a broad brush approach, have them
look through a different lens about what we might do going forward. And I will yield the floor to Mike Meader.

We can talk about who might be participating, but the other piece of this I want to share is that, as we go
down this path, trying to discern what might be best for us collectively, looking at our transit facilities, our
various modes of transport, we need to ensure that it is a system that's equitable, that basically is looking
at all of our customers in a way in which they should be viewed.
And helping us with this effort, we speak to having a consultant on Board. We're in the process of retaining
a consultant to work in lockstep with Chief Grado. The consultant that we are working towards getting is an
individual who is highly regarded in the transit industry. She was the Chief of Police for MARTA, being the
Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority. She has worked in lockstep with APTA providing a multitude
of peer reviews and notably, I would say, she's just written a book and also, basically, was one of the first
on the scene when the unfortunate circumstances occurred back with the unfortunate shooting of Oscar
Grant at the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District at Fruitvale Station that later became a motion
picture.
And so with Chief Dunham working in lockstep with us, I am quite confident in our step going forward. This
would be a process, which would be highly transparent and involve stakeholder input. So I specifically
wanted to bring this to you all so you recognize the delay associated with this process. And with that, Mike
Meader, I will yield the floor to you, if you'd like to add any more insight into our path forward with this
endeavor.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. This is Mike Meader, the Chief Safety and Security
Officer, and as the General Manager mentioned, we are going to enlist the services of the AFTA peer
review. The peer review, as you may have seen in the letter I believe that General Manager Johnson shared
with you, the request, there are some focus areas. So they'll be focusing on the areas in that letter, and just
as a quick reminder, looking at response models where we have armed security responding as first
responders, recommendations for community policing outreach, recruiting and training of a more diverse
policing force, also social media and community engagement, how we can utilize those things to help us
reach out to the community and continue to get input, not just prior to the model, but continuously over the
years as we continue to try to improve what we're trying to accomplish.
We've also asked them to look at how they service in intermodal transit facilities similar to our Union Station.
Most of the agencies that are going to be working on this have something similar. And then also, take a
look at the second crew member. As you know, on the N Line, we changed from the armed TSO to the TSA
and we want them to take a look at that across the board, as well, in addition to collection of system data
and how we can better use that data to, again, build kind of the processes and whatnot.
So the esteemed group that's been committed to this, as Debra mentioned, we'll a kickoff meeting on
February 16 and the peer review will start sometime probably mid-March, so we've got people coming from
BART, the Bay Area Rapid Transit System, who are going to be participating. LA Metro, WMATA, out in
the Washington area, DART, down in Dallas, and then of course, some feedback from someone who has
a lot of experience with MARTA, which is the Atlanta system down there.
And again, these are all systems that developed and grew much like we did, so they're going to understand
how we provide services, how we came to be who we are, and many of you will be involved in that peer
review and with our consultant from the standpoint of interviews and providing input, as well. So I'll leave it
at that, and happy to take any questions that you might have.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Meader. And with that, yes, I will ensure that you all know
in advance, prior to anybody contacting you, we'll set that up so you have an understanding of what is

expected. And it just reminded me that this is our second peer review. As you know, we're also leveraging
another peer review with APTA and that has to deal with our-- ah, if I could speak, it's late-- our internal
auditing function. So hopefully, we'll get a bang for our buck, utilizing our peer agencies with that. So thank
you very much, Madam Chair, and as Mr. Meader said, we're happy to entertain any questions that you
may have.
KATE WILLIAMS: I would ask if there are any of the Directors who wish to have a question or comment
that they raise their hand and I will call on them. At the moment, I see Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you General Manager Johnson and Mr. Meader.
I really appreciate this conversation and this opportunity. We had a lot of discussions in our Safety and
Security Committee and I think, one of the resounding-- that was resounding for me, rather, I'll speak for
myself-- is that we hadn't quite landed on what it was that we were solving for or what question we were
asking ourselves, in terms of next steps. And so I'm quite excited to see this work move forward in
partnership with a consultant. It sounds like she-- or he, I don't know, I don't know if I heard you. It sounds
like they know what they're doing and they might be able to lead us in this discussion.
And while I appreciate the expertise of my colleagues and the work we were able to do, I am thrilled to hear
that this person is going to specialize in community engagement, as I do think that diversity in voices was
incredibly important and also missing from the conversation. And so I just could not be more thrilled about
this approach and the direction that we're going. The only question I have-- those are all comments-- the
only question I have is in terms of process. I'm really trying to wrap my mind around the different committees.
And I know we've had some discussions about having smaller committees, larger committees, and I
recognize that this came in the Customer Service and Operations Committee and I'm curious, in the future,
if this will come in the Safety and Security Committee or if this will come by way of our Operations and
Customer Service?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm not sure who can answer that question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, [CHUCKLES] that's OK. Miss Johnson, do you have an answer at the moment, or
do you want to get back on that one later?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, if I may ask a clarifying question for Director Lewis-- so keeping in mind that this
was an Ad Hoc Committee and when I was looking at the charter, this was something that developed
because there was a need, so I'm not too certain. I do think it's imperative that we keep everybody apprised
because this is a very important topic to me, as I know to you all, as well. So I say we can have some
discussions and put forward a recommendation but I don't want to take that over from the Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. I don't have an opinion either way. It's more of
a-- if I'm the Chair of the Safety and Security Committee, I just want to know what I'm responsible for. But
if it comes in the Operations and Customers, I'm cool with that, too. It's more for my own personal edification
to know what I'm supposed to be doing, that's it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Now, I understand your question. And I think, in relationship to this committee meeting
happening, in reference to the time frame and recognizing that we're going to have a kickoff meeting, I
wanted to ensure that this was discussed in a public forum so all of our constituents, our customers, had
an understanding of what the path forward was and why there was a delay. So that was the reason that it
was agendized for this committee meeting. So I can speak to that one there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I really appreciate the clarity.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you both. I'm going to see if there are other directors. Director Broom, I know
that you are on the phone. Do you have a question or a comment?
BOB BROOM: No, I don't
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Let's see whose hands are up. I believe Director Guissinger would be
next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Just very briefly, I sat on that committee and I was impressed with all the
good, thoughtful work that I think Mr. Meader and Chief Grado and his team had all put into it. And I think
this is a great step. There were a lot of questions. It was hard for us to, I think, move it forward as well as
we might have, so thanks for putting this all together, to you and General Manager Johnson.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: I apologize if George wants to get a word in for the record. I can't relate to a lot of control
of the dog. I just wanted to lend my voice to the fact that, perhaps, the Civil Rights Committee may be an
appropriate place for this, as it does really impact-- our safety and security plans do really impact the civil
rights of so many. As we think about civil rights being beyond Title VI, I believe, as well as just our
obligations, but really going above and beyond.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I see no other hands. Thank you, all, for your input. I think that, we will now move
on past this discussion item. Are there any other matters that anyone wishes to bring before this committee
before we move into Executive Session? Crickets. OK. I will now entertain a motion to move into Executive
Session, pursuant to Statute 24-6-402(4)(b), C.R.S. to receive legal advice, and Statute 24-6-402(4)(e),
C.R.S. for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations, developing strategy
for negotiations, and instructing negotiators, regarding negotiations with the Amalgamated Transit Union
Local 1001 concerning the collective bargaining agreement. Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. OK. Thank you, Director Bouquet. Is there any discussion before we move
into the executive session? OK. I will note for the record that the Board will not conduct any additional
business following the conclusion of this Executive Session. Would all of those who are entitled to
participate in the Executive Session please move to the other meeting instance at this time.
MELANIE SNYDER: Excuse me, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
MELANIE SNYDER: Can you-- we need to call for a vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, we do. If there is anyone who objects to us moving into executive
session at this time, please speak now. Seeing none. I would also note, at this time, since there will be no
business conducted after the Executive Session, that the next meeting of this committee will be March 2,
2021, same time, same location. And with that, we will now move to Executive Session.
MELANIE SNYDER: All right. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: [AUDIO OUT]] audio. OK. The Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting
will now come back to order. The next meeting date will be March 2, 2021, same time, same location. Do I
have a move to adjourn this meeting?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, I'm just going to note for the record that it's 8:57 PM.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. OK. Seeing no other discussion. Meeting will be adjourned at 8:58,
by now. That's it. Good night, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, all. Good job.

[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

