RTD Executive Commiteee - 5-6-2021 video
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So it is now 11:32 and I'd like to call the Executive Committee meeting for
Thursday May 6 to order.
The first thing is the main meeting agenda review. And I wanted to see if everybody was OK with that and
if I have a first and a second to adopt the meeting agenda for May.
SHELLEY COOK: So moved, Shelley Cook.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second, Rosenthal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there any discussion? Any no? All right. Hearing none, the May Board
Meeting agenda is adopted. Thank you.
Our next item is physical meetings and meeting streaming. So Miss McManus, I'll turn it over to you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hi. Sorry. I was stuck on mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Just wanted to just remind everybody that we are doing Zoom meetings now.
We're trying to figure out the best way to get the links to you. It seems like folks aren't able to find the links
that we send. So we ask you to bear with us while we figure the best path forward for that is.
And just let you know that we do have a lot of meetings coming up and scheduled, and to make sure that
all of those, that you're familiar with all the Save the Dates and that everything is on your calendar for all
the meetings that are up and coming.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I am getting a notice from our Secretary saying he's on the phone and it
won't let him unmute. It says he's logged in as an attendee. Mr. McKay, can-- or Brandy?
JOHN MCKAY: OK. Director Buzek, you should be able to speak now, if you hit star 6 on your phone.
There you go.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Secretary. OK. Let it be known on the record that all Executive
Committee members are in attendance, and as well as Director Catlin. Welcome, Director Catlin.
So Barbara, I hate to ask you to share that again. But do you mind-- oh, you're gone. Can you kind of give
us a little synopsis again about the physical meetings and the streaming again?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. So I was saying that we're having some challenges with people recognizing
the Zoom meeting invites. And we would ask you to be a little bit diligent when you see the meeting,
actually the agenda being posted that has just the public information on it, that you look for the Zoom
meeting from the Board office as well. Some of the Directors are having a challenge finding those
meeting invites. We have been sending a duplicate close to the meeting time as well, but we're hoping
that people get the hang of it and we're not going to have to follow that practice moving forward.
And then in terms of-- we talked about this a little bit the last time-- in terms of physical meetings, we're
still following the guidance from Mike Meader's team. General Manager Debra Johnson has spoken to
this in most of the meetings that we've had with the Board of Directors. And all I can say is that as things
change, we will keep everybody updated.
We are looking-- we do have some technology challenges when we go back meeting live, just because
we will want to continue doing Zoom, as well as meeting live and live streaming as well. And there are
challenges in our current physical environment to all of that happening. But myself, my team,

Communications, and Michael Ford and IT, as well as Space Planning with Henry Stopplecamp, are
looking at a number of different options. And I'll keep you updated as we move along with any progress
with that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Before I call on Second Vice Chair Cook, I would just like to say
that it is difficult to see it. And I'm not quite sure why, but almost if we highlighted that, here's your link,
that might be helpful, for me at least.
Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. I lowered my hand. So in terms of that and the planning underway, do you
have an idea of the time frame when we might-- because there are some instances where it would be so
much more beneficial, I think, if we could meet in person. Maybe not every meeting. Maybe some
meetings are hybrids, where, I've seen this in Arvada, some of the council, most of the council are
present, some choose to Zoom in, and staff members do both. So they have kind of a hybrid setup. And
that allows them to space more and people can make personal choices. But it gives them the benefit of
meeting in person. Is there a way to map out that kind of thing happening as we move toward reopening
this piece?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would ask Debra Johnson, CEO, to speak to that. She has regular meetings
with Mike Meader regarding our specific facilities. So Debra, if you would please speak to that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, most definitely. Thank you, Miss McManus. And Madam Chair, if I may address
Director Cook.
So recognizing the question that was put forward, Miss McManus spoke to some challenges in reference
to this building. It is a very old building that has limitations in reference to technology advancement. And
considering that you pose that the consideration for a hybrid, we still run the same aspect of having a
problem even if some of you were physically here, in the sense that we would not be able to successfully
be able to stream and provide that virtual platform.
What I have asked the team to do in relationship to where we are currently, looking to the science,
basically revolving around where we are with hospitalizations and the decline in vaccination rates, that I
want to see a broad brush recommendation relative to looking at other options of where to convene a
meeting. First and foremost, we do not have a standard meeting facility in reference that allows a policy
body to convene in such a way. It's my understanding, after doing some due diligence, that we would use
the atrium as an overflow area. Recognizing that there could be air filtration systems and things of the
like, it may be prudent to look at holding our meetings at a designated site off of the property here so we
could actually leverage technology, have a space whereby it could be hybrid and more so accommodates
individuals.
I shared this with the team in reference to my desire to look at pros and cons of such a recommendation.
Staff is supposed to be working on this and apprising me accordingly. And once we assess what it is, I
will most definitely take a hard look at it and put forward, or have conversations and then apprise you all
as a body about what I think may be optimal to address the needs of the public. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Any idea of a time frame? Are you sketching out fall matter-- or what's your thought
there?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So recognizing we just had the conversation that ensued last week, they were going
to convene. But recognizing as we look at the public health orders, what we have looked at in reference
to where we are with the cases and recognizing that 36 to 100 cases per 100,000 people should be

where we are. We are now close to 200 cases. And so with that as a backdrop and recognizing that we
need to look at that as we go forward, we don't anticipate doing that, as I proscribed, I think, last week
when I spoke, looking again, June 16 to make a determination. Most of the public health orders and the
public health entities are reviewing this on a monthly basis as we go forward.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Going back to Barbara's issue, I found that with me, if I accept a invite, then it goes into
my Sent box. It does not remain in my Inbox. And so it's easy to lose track of those who are posting. And
so what I have to do, and I don't always remember, is to consciously go into my Sent box and re-forward
it to my email so that I have a current link. But I don't know if that's similar for you all. It may just be a Mac
issue. But I found that to be the case.
And so Barbara, I know you guys don't like sending those reminders an hour beforehand, but they've
been a godsend for me. I want to thank you. It's really nice to have those reminders sent. So thanks for
doing that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, I would also suggest-- and I don't know if you guys have done
this, so I'm jumping into another person's swim lane-- but I was going to say as relates to those Zoom
invitations, you can also, when you receive them, add it to your calendar so it's already there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I tried to do that but it does not go into my calendar. It just kind of
disappears somewhere.
DEBRA JOHNSON: As I said, I was jumping into another swim lane and just thought I would broach it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is there no way for those to go into our calendar when we get the invite?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I'm going to ask Brandy to speak to that. And we sent directions on how to get
it onto your calendar when we started this. And we will resend those to all Directors as well. Brandy?
BRANDY HUNTER: Hello. So when you do get the email, it's best to click on the Add to Calendar that
downloads the invite into your Downloads folder. You have to open your Downloads folder. And let me
see if I can download it really quick. And that way I can tell you what it says. It'll say something like
webinar, dash, and then a very large number, I-C-S. When you open that, it'll open up the Outlook
calendar invite, and you just Save and Close. And it should save and close into your Outlook calendar.
If it doesn't, feel free to contact me and I'll be happy to walk you through the steps and see where it might
be going.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would like to add that there is a step. If you do that and put it on to your
calendar, it puts it on. And I don't know what to call this, Brandy, so I'm just going to make a scenario up.
It goes to sort of a ghost calendar on the Outlook server. And then it saves and then it populates to your
calendar. So you may not see it immediately. I just wanted to preface that. Because I did have that issue.
And Brandy and I had to walk through it. And the Outlook server that day just wasn't updating on a regular
basis. And it actually took about 15 minutes for me to see it on the calendar that I access.
So I know this is a challenge, but this is just the way Zoom works. And we've talked with the IT team
about any additional workarounds, and this is just the way the system is set up. So we'll have to work
through it. So thank you for your patience.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: First Vice Chair Guissinger

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I will try to do that and test it. And that's a good point about not seeing it
first, because I never saw it. But I also would reiterate Peggy's point, that it's very nice to get that 4:30
reminder, if you all don't mind doing that. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I also just want to say for the record that Director Sloan has
joined us. So welcome, Director Sloan.
OK. Anything else on the physical meetings and meeting streaming? I mean, I think it's just a very fluid
issue that we have to work through and we're going to just have to learn how to navigate it. And I agree,
I'm the one, I keep trying to do it. But I'm not doing well.
Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Just one more thing. I wanted to plant the seed that once we go back to whatever
meeting room we end up going back to, if that happens to be the boardroom at RT&D in the basement of
Blake Street, that the current infrastructure down there doesn't have a cameras set up at every station.
And that's something that we've been looking into. So Zoom meetings may not look exactly like this going
forward. So just know that in the back of your minds that you may not end up in a little box when you're
talking to your constituents going forward. It may just be a YouTube stream. So please-- excuse me-bear with us as we try to navigate what that looks like going forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you.
OK. So now we're under Other Matters. And I have one. And it is that last night we had our first meeting
with our strategic planners, TransPro, with the Board of Directors. And what I'd like to do is do kind of like
a recap, and they asked our General Manager to do kind of how did we get here last night, and then open
it up for any questions or comments from the Executive Committee. General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Well, thank you very kindly, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to
basically give a broad brush overview of how we got here, recognizing when you all recruited me we
talked about in earnest about how I'd be evaluated. And recognizing that I have the responsibility to lead
the organization with day-to-day activities overseeing that, recognizing that there need to be alignment
around how do we actually ascertain what we're collectively working towards.
So with that as a backdrop, having had conversations agreed that we would look at an approach in
reference to developing a strategic planning process. With that as a backdrop, did a solicitation whereby
we could have appropriate professional support that could help garner a process that would lead to
creating alignment around success outcomes. With that as a backdrop, with that having had happened, in
the sense of identifying the consultant after a competitive process, we retained the services of TransPro.
And with the advent of this process, in turn there were conversations that had independently with each
Board member to understand what their priorities were-- or, I should say, current tense-- priorities are,
and in relationship to their ideals and beliefs relative to where we should go. Concurrently recognizing
that I have the responsibility of leading the organization and there are different components within this
organization, departments that have responsibility of ensuring that comes to fruition, there were
conversations that ensued collectively with the department heads of said department.
This came on the heels of the conversations that had taken place with each of you as Board members,
recognizing that some elements that have come out in conversations are the same ones that I heard
when I was going through the recruitment process, relative to garnering trust within our greater service
area and our community, engaging with stakeholders, and ensuring that we are the mobility provider of
choice. Those things were paramount as we looked at where it is that we should be. Quite naturally,

recognizing that we have to collectively understand what the outcomes are, there are activities that are
incumbent upon the day-to-day activity-- there are activities incumbent upon day-to-day functionality
within the space.
So let me give you an example. Having had a group collectively discussing recognizing that we're trying
to build trust, we're trying to really place an emphasis on what our value is to the community, how do we
get there if I'm actually working within service planning and I'm doing run cutting? And I use that word
intentionally, because you, as a Board, probably don't know what it means by run cutting. But those are
the activities that need to take place so we can ultimately reach the success outcome relative to creating
customer satisfaction. So those are the nuances that have taken place.
The one piece I didn't reference is, as we talk about our mission and values, recognizing that a mission is
our why, what is it that we're doing, and recognizing that vision is aspirational. The same process actually
took place relative to what took place with all of you. We were given something in the sense of, here is
what it is relative to what our mission statement is. And I know, I think it was very illustrative last night
when conversations ensued about our website said this, and then the strategic plan said something else.
Clearly and truly, that gives us an opportunity to work around and rally around what it is collectively we
believe our mission to be. Because if we can't even find the appropriate mission statement, we know we
have work to do. Because it boils down to what the why is.
So we, in turn, reacted to the same thing that you all reacted to. And recognizing it's not a fait accompli,
this is a iterative process, recognizing we're in a virtual platform, highlighting the conversation that's been
had, it's not ideal. Because I do think that that didn't come across, that this is in our mission statement,
we're supposed to say, OK, this is where we are. This is something to react to so we can rally around
what it is, what is our why, specifically as relates to us in the day-to-day. Because you heard me say, I'm
a person in the people business. I believe public transportation is the great societal equalizer. I'm in this
space because I believe I'm making a difference. That is personally my why.
And so basically, taking that as a backdrop, you all reacted to the same thing in which we reacted to,
right? And so these things have been sort of dove tailing each other. And recognizing last night, there
were elements as it related to the road to recovery discussion. I intentionally-- and as I said, this was
serendipitous in the sense of having this pushed out, because TransPro was on board so they could
listen in, recognizing the conversation that ensued last week about what it is we should be doing.
That information, also coupled with what was garnered from the independent conversations with each
and every Board member led to those success outcomes. And that too isn't a fait accompli. And so
recognizing where we are, what's happening right now with the departments that have the responsibility
of the activities, i.e., case in point, within the auspices of Operations, you do have service planning. You
do have commuter rail. You do have light rail. We have fixed route and we have paratransit. What
activities do they have, as a functional unit, as individuals that make up this organization, what do they
need to do activity wise to get it to those success outcomes?
So that's that parallel track that is happening. Because basically, when you think about it, and I use the
whole notion of run cutting, when you talk about how would one increase ridership, if you're not doing run
cutting in such a way and what that needs is discerning by looking at how many operators would you
need on each block that's comprised a vehicle to deliver service to ensure you can pick them up, to
effectuate that to yield customer satisfaction.

So that's what's going on in those aspects. Because everybody in the organization has a role to play. And
those are the activities in which TransPro is working with, and those things are still in process. Not every
group that has that responsibility of functionary aspects has been convened.
And so with that, additionally recognizing that this is a evergreen process, that there will be additional
interaction with the Board. And I think that was outlined on one of the last slides last night. And so as we
go through this process, I think it's clear that we need to be more communicative. Because I think there
was some confusion about what was what and who's on first and who's who in the zoo.
Because as I come into this organization, I want to be clear that I am not trying to be prescriptive. I
recognize this is a process that is new to this body. But I also recognize in my role as leading the
organization, I have to in turn still align my team around what it is that we're ultimately working towards so
there's not competing priorities.
So with that as a backdrop, that's how we got here, recognizing they took feedback. I have yet to de-brief
with TransPro, in the interest of full disclosure. But what I envision going forward is that there will be
additional touchpoints as we work through with the Board, recognizing that I don't know yet what the
activities are. And that gets back-- and I'll use this as a jump off point-- relative to coming up with metrics
and KPIs, what does those actually mean? And I know some people have been involved in meetings with
the Accountability Committee where we see a litany of different metrics. But are those metrics germane to
what we're actually doing?
Case in point, when we saw elevator and escalator metrics for an organization, which I personally know
came from the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, most transit agencies don't track that. The
reason WMATA tracks that is because they have 10 of the deepest escalators in the Western hemisphere
and they have the most vertical transportation of any agency in North America. So that's germane to their
operating environment. But how is that germane here to RTD when we don't have subterranean stations?
And so I use that to say, as we discern what the activities are to garner the outcome, that's a discussion
that's ensuing with the senior leadership team. Because they have to garner an understanding. And when
I say they, I mean it cascades down, about how does that translate into that outcome.
And so as we move forward, quite naturally what comes out of this is what will be used creating alignment
when we both agree. Because it's not just one sided, because I do work for you all and work for the
people of the greater District, discerning what it is that we can rally around so we know what our North
Star is.
And as we go forward, one thing I want to share-- and I'll leave this up to you all to think about-- when the
question was posed to me by Director Cook about the meetings in person and what we could do, I
recognized last night may have been challenging for some because it's this virtual format. And so I'm
willing to explore perhaps having the retreat, when we discern when that will be, in a forum, i.e. Maybe it's
at a hotel, maybe it's in a ballroom so we can be socially distanced, six feet, where there's audio visual
capability and the public can go, maybe that would be more conducive. Because it would give an
opportunity to engage and ask questions in such a way that would be more free flowing in the sense of
what we all are accustomed to. And I know there are some challenges as it relates to this forum here
today. But it is what it is and we're being flexible and agile.
So I think that would lend to the process. And I just want to say for the record, I pride myself on being
highly communicative and I recognize change is hard. And as I said when I came into this organization, I
was going to delve deep and look at opportunities. And that's what I'm doing in reference to this process.

It's not my process. It's our process. It's not prescriptive. I think it's iterative and it's organic. We can't just
take what Cleveland RTA does. We can't take what the underground of London did. We need to discern
what would work best for our operating environment. And I think this is what this process is all about.
So thank you very much, Madam Chair, for giving me the opportunity to provide context around the intent
of the strategic planning process and creating alignment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, General Manager. Any comments from the
Executive Committee members or Board members? First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. That was very helpful. I think that putting it all into the context was very
helpful. And I just had a great conversation with Ms. Johnson a little while ago about some of this. I think
that increasing the communication from the consultants would help a lot, the transparency, showing us
what they took from our individual meetings and took to the SLT so that we can look at it and say, well, I
don't know that that's what, I don't see a consensus there, or, great, it's glad to know how we were heard.
Same thing last night. What did they take from that? And Debra and I were talking about, I'm used to
where a consultant, a the facilitator will have a whiteboard and take those ideas and put them up and
come back and try to reach some consensus and talk them through. And I get what we're doing now. But
I didn't see that happening last night. And part of that is probably just the virtual situation.
So I appreciate that you're looking at a situation where we can all sit down together. And getting the
materials beforehand, it sounds like the materials weren't finished until the last minute. But getting us
what they could for the strategic planning process would really help. So I think showing more, a little more
transparency and communication about how our input is received by the consultants and where that's
taken would help me a lot. So thanks. I appreciate that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: May I just ask a clarifying question? It would be helpful to understand how would you
like that communication to take place, in the sense, trying to ensure it's done in a meaningful way. I just
don't want to make assumptions here. So I ask you to provide me with an understanding of how you
would like to see that information. Because I don't want to make assumptions, because then we would
have a lack of clarity once again.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, from my point of view, and others can speak up to it, but showing us what
they took away and took back to the SLT, whether that's a PowerPoint or whether that's a written paper.
Here's what we heard from our individual meetings with the Board members and here's what we
presented to the SLT-- and from last night, here's what we heard, so we can look at it and say, well, you
know, yeah. So I think however they present it, whether it's a written document or a presentation or
verbally, or whatever, would be helpful to me.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm sorry. So I understood that. I meant in what format. You know, going through the
Board Office. Because basically with this process, and recognizing there could be additional one-on-ones
with you all, because I think that's important as we go through the process. So I was trying to garner a
better understanding of how that should be done. Is it sending something through the Board Office, or are
we talking about one-on-one meetings? Are we talking about subgroups? So that's what I didn't
understand.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think sending something through the Board Office would probably generally be
fine. If it's just getting us, here's what we heard, and then, as you said, there will be other steps and
there'll be a retreat. So that we see what they heard. And again, others can chime in here, but so that we

can see what they took away and say, wow, but you didn't hear this other piece, you know, that some of
us may have heard or something like that. So sending something out in that sense, I think would be fine.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. And what I-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry. I was just going to say, I think that it needs to be streamlined
through our Board Office. That's where we go for information and to receive information. And the other
thing, just to add on what First Vice Chair Guissinger was talking about, it would have been helpful to note
that TransPro had been meeting that afternoon with departments, so that we knew that there was a-- this
was a very fluid conversation. It wasn't something that was embedded yet.
Second Vice Chair Cook.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're muted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, you're muted.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Just tacking onto that, I do think kind of creating that linkage, making that
linkage obvious, more apparent, would be really helpful. So I just wanted to second that.
I had a quick question too. The consultants had a slide show and they discussed sort of the outcomebased measures being things like by the end of the decade, we'll have somebody on the moon. That's the
extreme example. But is that the next step? Or where does that come in? By x date, we'll have seen this
and this. When do we get to that piece, which is really, it sounds like it's iterative, because you're working
from the department level up, and then you want to go back in with the KPIs or something. But how do
you see that happening?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So I think, Director Cook-- sorry, Madam Chair, if I may address Director Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So yes, you're spot on. Because there are still some of the department meetings
happening as they go through that process. I will have to double back with the consultant, recognizing
there was a timeline last night that showcased where we are. I have yet, as I said at the outset of my
comments, have yet to have an opportunity to debrief. So I can't speak to that question right now. But
ultimately, that's where we would circle back and basically have that information shared and engage
around that.
Now as I said, this is a iterative process. I don't know if we'll have a workshop before that, before we have
the ultimate retreat, the pinnacle of all of this. So I think if anything, as we have conversations, then I can
engage with you to take temperatures to see where it is that we need to go.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So you're saying the final product would reflect that kind of strategic outcome, say,
whatever we call it, success outcome. OK, good.
And then I really love the idea of having the possibility of an in-person meeting. I really think that for a
retreat for this kind of process, that's going to be so helpful.
The recovery. We've got sort of two streams of things happening. We've got the recovery, road to
recovery. And then we've got the strategic planning. I'm worried that if we, in the next few months, before
the two-year timeframe for the road to recovery is out, if we issue a strategic plan that doesn't take up the
issue of how we emerge from the pandemic, that it won't be seen as responsive or something. And I
would be concerned that it wouldn't be responsive necessarily. So how do you see those two dovetailing?
How do we work through the sort of near-term working with the unusual situation that we're trying to
emerge from, and then hoping to restore or put our agency and so forth back on its feet? How do you see
that working into the strategic plan?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Cook, can you qualify that for me a little bit? Because when you say you're
worried about the road to recovery and the intersectionality with strategic planning, I'm having a slight
disconnect.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, my impression is that the strategic plan will come together sooner than some of
the elements of the road to recovery. And we're immersed in this. We understand that we've got both
things going on. And of course, Pauletta can go a long way toward helping to convey understanding. But
I'm worried if the strategic plan, which many people see as the overarching guiding document, doesn't
take up the issue of recovery, that that may be a lapse, or at least perceived as one. And so that, I'm just
expressing that one question about how those pieces get pulled in?
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Well, thank you very much for the question. And I will address that in the sense
of, we still have our core business. We deliver service. In recognizing the pandemic has impacted the way
we have our service delivery model, that still does not negate what our functional core business is. So as
we look at that, in recognizing what's before us, i.e., the unknown variables that we talked about relative
to not having an understanding when people are going to be back, when there's not going to be herd
immunity, we still need to plan accordingly. And we're able to pivot in such a way by leveraging the
lessons learned.
Because as we talked last week when I posed the question about what is it we're trying to recover from,
right, we still have to discern what that is as we go forward, recognizing Director Broom asked the
question. And yesterday, with my participation with Ready Denver and I have been meeting with the
President and CEO of Ready Denver, recognizing that they're looking for a commitment from individuals
that occupy downtown office space, we're sharing that information so we can be ready to pivot. That in
and of itself is basically being highly communicative, keeping our pulse on what's happening, and
engaging with a multitude of different customer segments, which would happen within our strategic
planning process, which will happen in and around what we need to be doing as an organization in order
to ensure that we're providing the services that are warranted.
And more so, as we step back from that, and the question was posed, what is the difference with
community and customer, it's ascertaining will we, in fact, be able to garner support from individuals that
make discretionary trips on our system. They may be making them because there's a yearning for them to
get back into the space to access different activity centers. All of that is intertwined as we discern what it
is that we need to do by sampling the population, i.e. the community, and figuring out, will you feel able
and ready to basically get on a vehicle and utilize it to get to a myriad of different activity centers.
So I see them one and the same, in the sense that when you strategically plan, there are short-term,
there's mid-term, there's long-term. And recognizing that where we are right now, give months into what
we qualify here at this organization as our fiscal year, we have an opportunity to do just that, recognizing
that you have to create a baseline. And we were talking about instruments in which to do that, because I
hear that there's not a high level of confidence in relationship to the way it was done. And so I think we're
operating from what we know as opposed to what we're operating from what could be, because that's an
in-depth more detailed type of process.
And I support staff wholeheartedly. But as you all know, I have shared with some of you that as we look at
our serving, oftentimes we're not doing it in the manner in which we could really garner information that's

useful, i.e., we're not looking at origin and destination. We're not looking at household income, how many
people are living in a house. So all of those things are pertinent data points as we discern the level of
service that we need to provide. And actually, when you engage with the community, asking them
questions about why wouldn't you utilize the system, and creating that. And I think that's where TransPro
is quite helpful, having been in the space, utilizing net promoter scores, because it gives us a better
understanding of how we compete as a service provider not just in this limited transit space, but more
globally in reference to what it is that we're providing.
Because as Director Williams said last night, perception is reality, right? If a tree falls in the forest and
nobody hears it, did it fall? So that's what we're working toward. So I hope that addresses your question,
Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: It helps. Thank you. And I appreciate-- I don't say it often enough, but I appreciate
many of the things that you are-- I mean just day-to-day, some big, some small, that you're identifying and
changing, or working toward different ways of doing things. So I just wanted to let you know how much I
see that as important and impactful. So thanks very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Cook, for those kind comments. I do appreciate it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would just like to say for the record that Director Tisdale has joined us.
Welcome, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are there any other comments or questions for the General Manager
regarding strategic planning? I understand that Director Buzek has been on mute again and he can't get
through. So I would just ask if he has any questions or comments to text me, or-- oh, wait a minute, is that
you? Secretary Buzek, you're on mute.
VINCE BUZEK: Can you hear me now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you now.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, geez, sorry. I'm sorry, I apologize. I got kicked off of my phone connection, the Zoom
phone connection, and then had to come back in. And of course, when you come back in, you're muted.
And I sent a couple emails. And anyway-- so I missed some of the commentary regarding the strategic
planning session from last night. I heard some of Ms. Johnson's comments that I think clarify something.
Just again, I was one of the several that were a little concerned about the process, but I understand the
process is going to be more iterative and we're going to get better inputs.
One thing I want to ask Miss Johnson, if she's going to be available at our 3 o'clock GMOC to kind of go
over some of the stuff with that committee as well. I think it would be important to have everyone else at
that committee level know what's happening as well.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Buzek, most definitely I will be in attendance at 3 o'clock. And I am more
than happy to reiterate the comments in the context that I set forth during the course of this meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: I appreciate that. I think that'll be very helpful.
One of the things that I maybe I didn't hear and don't understand is that what I got from the strategic
planning session last night is that once we define what our plan is and what the principles are that we're
going to be pursuing, there's this process of surveying that takes place. And I kind of got the sense that
the surveys take the place of a performance evaluation. I don't think that can possibly be true, but I'm just

trying to figure out how they'll fit into the evaluation process. Because if they don't, then obviously the
GMOC should just go away. Because the public is going to be the evaluator. And I don't think I have that
right.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Buzek, thank you very kindly for that question. And I don't believe in any
way, shape or form that that was the crux of the discussion relative to surveying. And so basically what
that is is to create a baseline-- and I know you weren't on the call, and I was talking about perception
being reality as we talk about some elements. And so that is not what that is based upon. In relationship,
there's going to be some aspect of it. In transfer, we'll talk about that with the GMOC, and that's another
touchpoint, recognizing the role and responsibility of the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Committee.
Today, Mark Aesch will be present to talk about his experience in that vein and will outline that. But no,
that's not-- I'm not going to be just assessed-- I wouldn't, let me be candid, agree to the general public just
saying whether or not they like me and you guys are going to evaluate me on such.
VINCE BUZEK: I wouldn't think so.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. OK. I appreciate that.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sure they love you. But yeah, I get the point. But that's kind of what I came away from
last night with the meeting. I thought, that-- so clarification on that at 3 o'clock, that'd be great. Thanks so
much. That's all I had.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Awesome. Thank you, sir.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Any other comments from any Board members? Any other matters
to come before the Board?
OK. Well, then, it is 12:16 and I'd like to call for adjournment. All in favor.
SHELLEY COOK: Aye.
VINCE BUZEK: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any opposed? OK. 12:17, we are adjourned. Thank you, ladies and
gentlemen. I'll see most of you at the GMOC at 3. All right.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, everybody. Thank you.

