2024-04-11
Audit Committee Meeting Video
BOBBY DISHELL: Good morning, everyone. The Thursday, April 11 audit committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 11:00 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note, the
committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio
recorded and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with unofficial minutes of the meetings, will
be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
At this morning's meeting, we are providing Communication, Access, Real-time Translation, also known as
CART. Additionally, the CART transcripts can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who
would like to access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. Anyone who would like to access this
service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. And a link will
be provided.
Visit rtd-denver.com and a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. Directors
and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during today's
proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding
to speak.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute settings on the phone, press star 6. I would now like to
call the roll for the committee members. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Brendel?
JACK KROLL: We believe Mr. Brendel is attempting to join and will be on soon.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, Mr. Olenberger?
JOHN OLENBERGER: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: For the record, I also see that we have directors Lewis present. And I do not believe we
have anyone joined. One person joined by phone. And I do not believe that is a director's phone number.
Great, Mr. Kroll, if you would just let us know, for the sake of the record, when Mr. Brenedl is able to get
through, that would be great.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you would like
to speak-- if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press
star 9 on your phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses.

However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Are there any hands raised virtually or any other public
comment?
JACK KROLL: Hi, Director Dishell. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. There are no
hands raised. So no one present has indicated a desire to provide public comment. And we did not receive
any public comment via email prior to the meeting commencing.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. With no participants in the queue, we will close public comment period at
this time. There are no recommended actions on the agenda today. There is one discussion item for the
April 2024 internal audit update. I'd like to ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to begin the
presentation for this item.
DOUG MACLEOUD: Good morning. Thank you, Chair Dishell. And yes, Matt Marino, our Chief Executive
Officer-- or Chief, excuse me, Audit Executive from RubinBrown has joined us this morning. And he will
walk us through a presentation to give updates on past audits, the current audits. And there's also an audit- one of the most recent audits completed for revenue, non-revenue vehicles are also included in the packet
attached to the back. So without further ado, Matt, please go ahead when ready.
MATT MARINO: OK, I'm hoping everybody's seeing the internal audit update slide deck. So I'm going to go
through the internal update for Q2 of 2024. I'll go through this slide overall. And then I'm going to talk about
upcoming plans as well as talk about the results of the audit. So accomplishment and status of several
different items, as Mr. MacLeod mentioned, we did complete the district fleet revenue and non-revenue
reviews and issued that report on March 22.
We have several different audits in process. We have the safety review. We have IT vulnerability, security
review. And then we're also following up on any management action plans. If we go over to the right there,
kind of the red, yellow, and green, kind of talking about where we're at as far as timing wise.
So the fleet revenue and non-revenue, we did have slight delays, a very complex area and lots of people
involved. So not necessarily anything to report other than we were a little behind where we wanted to. But
all of the remaining audits there, safety, security, IT vulnerability, and follow-up on the management action
plans are on track to be issued either during Q2 2024 or quarterly if it's the management action plans follow
up.
If we go down to the bottom left, we did talk with management a little bit about some of the challenges,
issues, and risks that have been experienced. RTD management has had a lot of different people either
leave the organization and/or retire. And there's been no shortage of audits and management action plans
to follow up on.
So we will talk a little bit about going to you all to discuss the possibility of delaying a couple of the upcoming
projects in order to give management a chance to work through the current management action plans and
then still do the reviews or audits, but push them back a little bit. Immediate next steps, we're obviously
going to issue those reports. And then we're continuing to follow up on management action plans. If not
seeing any-- I do have a raised hand.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, just a quick question. How does-- I know our ad hoc audit that we discussed, I
believe, at the last meeting. Does that-- where does that fall on those management action plans? I know

we were sort of, in part, waiting for improvements to be made. But I would like to make sure that is continuing
to be followed, even though it was ad hoc.
MATT MARINO: Correct, it is ad hoc. And I can touch on that on this next slide, if you're OK with that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yep.
MATT MARINO: Perfect. OK, so here's our overall internal audit plan update. So the green items are
complete in that there's either-- there was a report issued or we had some closure on what next steps were.
So I've kind of already talked about all the items in green. And then the three items in blue, or actually four
items in blue, as far as they're in process.
With regard to the ad hoc management request and annual budgeting process, Director Dishell, you are
correct that is-- while it says complete, it is kind of ever-evolving because the budgeting team is working on
enhancements. And we're working closely to review where they're at, making recommendations where
GFOA is, and making sure that we're meeting the recommendations as brought forth by the Finance and
Planning Committee regarding what you might want to see with regard to the next budget process. Does
that adequately answer your question?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, it does. Thank you. Just want to make sure that was captured somewhere. If it's
a management action plan or-- I'm fine having it be put in that bucket, but just want to make sure it doesn't
drop off.
MATT MARINO: I believe I see-JACK KROLL: Director Dishell, hi, all. I just wanted to interrupt here and let everyone know that Mr. Brendel
has joined.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr Kroll.
MATT MARINO: Thank you. So the two items that we are asking to consider pushing back on the audit
plan, and we were going to work with management to fit it in where they think it would best be fitted, would
be the federal, state, and local regulations oversight review on the right hand side that's slated to be
reported to you all during Q3 of 2024 and then the human resources recruiting and hiring process review,
which is just a-- if you skip one line right below that.
And it's really just comes down to. We have several different key management people that are covering
other responsibilities due to vacancies and retirements. And so it's-- they want to make sure that they're
working on the management action plans and not overwhelm any one department or any one group of
people. So just looking for feedback from the internal audit committee, if you have any concerns with regard
to just delaying, but not removing those from the plan.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe Mr. Olenberger had his hand up before I did.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right, Mr. Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: I was just going to say, I have no concerns.

BOBBY DISHELL: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: So were you then planning to delay those two items to quarter 4?
MATT MARINO: We hadn't yet set on it because we wanted to bring it to you all. We could-- I would take
some feedback from you all when you might want to see it. But we hadn't yet necessarily settled on let's
delay it to quarter four, if it would slip into-- we still would do the audit, but you may not see it until Q1 of
'25, possibly. We're wanting to see what you all thought would be helpful, but also work with key
management to fit it all in because there's no shortage of audit activity going on at the district.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, it looks that way. I just know that the recruiting and hiring is pretty front and center
in some of the legislative discussions and among our customers. So I just wanted to make sure that got
calendared when it was practical, I see Ms. Johnson's hand is up. Maybe she would like to respond to
those?
BOBBY DISHELL: Ms. Johnson, please proceed.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to add some context. So while recognizing that we
may have some vacancies and retirements, what you may not be aware of, that we're in the midst of a
triennial audit that's required by the Federal Transit Administration. Not only are we required to do that, a
notice of rulemaking just came out to relate to our disadvantaged business enterprise program.
And more specifically, the federal government just came forward with an updated rule to the Public
Transportation Agency Safety Plan. So as we talk about the people that are involved with these, we are
looking to ensure that we are adhering to what's been set forth by federal guidelines and regulations. And
that's why we're asking for this holistically, because in reference to the triennial audit, when we talk about
hiring, and retention, and things of the like, those are being looked at.
And it's the same individuals that are putting forth this information, but to multiple audiences. So I just
wanted to provide that context for all of you. That we are working steadfastly on these. But we are being
audited at the federal level, the state level, and then here within the organization. And some of these are
critically important, as they impact our ability to actually be recipients of federal formula funds as well as
discretionary dollars. So thank you very much for the opportunity to offer that context.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Caitlin, any follow-up?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I just-- I appreciate that context, Ms. Johnson.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Mr. Brendel.
JIM BRENDEL: Yes, I just want to-- this may have been answered already, but I understand completely the
staffing issues, and as you said, there's a lot of activity happening. My question was just whether-- and
expect it has, that the priority of these items has been taken into account too in terms of deciding which
ones to delay.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I apologize, I don't have it in front of me. But Matt, do you happen to have the
enterprise risk assessment that was completed, which was used to help schedule these handy? So we can
compare that against the request to delay the specific audits?

MATT MARINO: I don't have it right in front of me. But the audits were scheduled in order of magnitude and
basically risk rating. We tried to get the audits that had the highest risk rating on the calendar first. And then
we just worked with different departments to also fit it around the other audit activities and other operational
activities that might be occurring in order to get it done as quickly as possible, but also be mindful that
there's many other activities going on. Does that help?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, that helps. And Ms. Johnson, is the federal and state audit, are those anticipated
to be completed by Q3? Or what is the timing on those?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Mr. Chair, recognizing we are in the process of collecting information and
submitting it to the reviewer that the federal government identified, they will be on site in June. And we will
have our initial intake meeting. They will be here for several days. So traditionally, it depends on how the
federal government is staffed.
So if we look at where we are, it could be at the end of summer, which would be Q3. But I can't say that
with certainty, as they will not be on site until the week of June 17. And I see Mr. MacLeod's hand is up, so
if he can add some more color to that, recognizing I have been coordinating with the federal-- sorry, the
regional office, he may have information from the reviewer themselves.
DOUG MACLEOUD: Mr. Chair?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, please.
DOUG MACLEOUD: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Yeah, correct. And I would just add on to that,
regarding the state audit, the current timing on the state audit is for a draft. And I was going to save this for
the other matters. But I'll go ahead and take this opportunity to give an update on the timing.
State audit that's going on, in addition to the triennial review that is going on, that state audit is anticipated
to be wrapped up towards the end of May with an executive committee for the full board to go over the state
audit findings. The June exit conference with staff in the board from the state auditors and then presentation
of the final report by the Office of the State Auditor to the Legislative Audit Committee, tentatively scheduled
for August 5 or 6.
In addition, we also have the financial statement audit for 2023 ongoing. That is progressing well. We
anticipate wrapping that up towards the end of May as well. And think that rounds out the majority of the
audits, at least on the financial side. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Mr. Marino.
MATT MARINO: Thank you, Director Dishell. I'll proceed. I just want to make sure there's no other further
comment. I will take note of making sure we're mindful of the risk rating and trying to get these done as
soon as administratively possible. But want to make sure there was no-- it sounds like there's no major
concerns with moving these around on the audit plan, but getting them done as soon as is administratively
possible. Is that your recollection, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I didn't-- I didn't hear any concern with, with moving things around, I think. I
certainly have concern of a TBD deadline, I think to the extent it would be good, via email or otherwise, if
we could get an update just on, hey, is anything going to slip into Q1 '25, and, and sort of evaluating that
as a board and as a committee before we were to push an audit beyond the current scope. But otherwise,

I think I certainly agree. The federal audit, the state audit would take priority here, just given the operations
and sort of that need.
So no issue on moving it around. But would like to have something before everything is set in stone on
moving it around, brought back to committee for approval, just with the updated deadlines for the current
2024 plan.
MATT MARINO: Thank you, Chair Dishell. We will work on getting that solidified when we think we would
actually be able to issue that report and present it to the committee. And we'll try and be mindful of not
pushing it out of calendar year '24, if possible.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, thank you.
MATT MARINO: If you look a little farther down, there's kind of our upcoming projects. Believe it or not, it's
time to start doing 2025 internal audit planning, not too far in the future. So we'll also be working towards
that, as well as several other different reviews of the Denver Transit Partner contract and how that is
interacting with services, as well as the Enterprise Risk Management refresh and so on. Any questions on
the overall internal audit plan update before progress?
Seeing no hands up, I'm going to proceed. So this is our internal observation tracking. So these are mostly
tracking the items that had risk ratings of either high or moderate. And so there was the target date. So the
first column, you have your observation number, title, and then the original target date, the risk rating, the
current status, and then the revised target date.
So if you know, on a couple of them, there has been some revised target dates, the first two being the ones
that have the revised. So the password control requirements, the draft policies have been created and
circulated. But they're still in internal review. So they're shooting for April 30 of 2024 to be done with that.
Observation 3, Oracle User Access Provisioning, that was originally slated to be done by March 31 of '24.
The enhancement request has been created and submitted for implementation. And target date of basically
a week from now, a little bit less than a week. And then the next couple are all basically either in different
phases of review, but they're more or less completed.
So observation 3, Evidence of Compliance on the End of Termination has been submitted to us. And we're
currently reviewing that. The observation 8, which has to do with Oracle user access reviews, it's been
disabled. And so we've gotten that information to verify that.
Observation 9, backup procedures, Evidence of Compliance of Backup Procedures has been submitted.
And we're reviewing that. Observation 10, Job Scheduling, we're also looking at the job logs and reviewing
the information with regard to that. Observation. 11, which has to do with the SOC type 2 reports, we have
received the SOC type 2 reports. And we're making sure that we've completed all of the different things that
we need to be doing as far as the documented user controls that are recommended in the SOC.
And if there's any noted things that we need to mitigate on our end with regard to use of different services
that might be providing-- might be providing us with SOC reports, we're working through that. Employee
Training Program, observation number 2, the job description has been drafted. And it should be submitted
by April 30. And then employee observation-- employee training program observation number 3, the training
structure. That's also under our review.

So been very busy, not only issuing new audits, but following up on the observations from prior audits.
Hopefully that was helpful to provide context on where we're at with everything. Any questions on follow up
of the related observations?
BOBBY DISHELL: I have one. Any other committee comments? All right, just make sure we're all using
common language and for the public as well. Is target date, the date by which management is expected to
submit to internal audit? Or is target date the date by which internal audit is supposed to have completed
its review of the management plan?
MATT MARINO: Target date is the date whereby management should be done with whatever processes
that they're trying to either change or update. And then we would follow up shortly thereafter, to make sure
that it has been completed.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome. Thank you. So is it reasonable that, if something's under an IA review, we're
talking, two weeks, three weeks? Could we get an idea there on how long the IA review process takes?
MATT MARINO: Yes, it would depend on the different items, but some of it may have already even
occurred. And just due to timing of getting the slide deck in preparation for the meeting, we didn't necessarily
complete them. Mr. Haronik, do you want to chime in on that in any more detail?
DAVE HARONIK: Yeah, I was just going to add for the record that all items under IA review have been
reviewed and cleared by internal audit.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome, thank you. And great work to everyone on that.
MATT MARINO: OK well, some good live time updates on that. So thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, everyone.
MATT MARINO: OK, I did not see any further hands go up. So I'll proceed. So this is just really an executive
summary of the two different reviews that we did. I will go through the report in more detail to the extent we
need to. But we reviewed both the fleet revenue and non-revenue vehicles processes.
We did have to look at it-- well, they are two separate animals as far as what they are, what they do as
being fleet revenue, things that generate revenue, and things that are non-revenue, more administrative.
But we did combine them into one cohesive report because they do involve many of the same people.
We did have two items that were rated as a high risk rating and need to be corrected. We had six moderate
and three that we would consider lower process improvement. Overall rating of the report of needs
improvement. I will go ahead and forward into the overall audit and go through some of the highlights.
So as a reminder, those are overall rating, satisfactory, needs improvement, or unsatisfactory. And then
high priority, moderate priority, and low priority. We've been doing these for a while. So I won't spend a ton
of time on those.
First one has to do with the transit asset management plan. This is one of the high priority items. So this
has to do with the purchasing of revenue vehicles. There was a certain amount that was allotted for the
transit asset management plan. We deviated from that plan. As you'll see in the recommendation, there are
reasons whereby you would deviate from the transit asset management plan. But we're recommending that

be well documented and that the decisions behind why deviations are occurring are well documented and
considered when deviations are going to occur. Any questions on that one?
Seeing none. Did I raise my hand again. I saw-- somebody else raise their hand.
BOBBY DISHELL: No, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah thank you. I just wanted to ask, I believe we've been making some adjustments. I
also happen to hold some questions to the end because I have some general thoughts from staff. But
general manager Johnson, I'm aware that we've been making some changes as we progress through our
TAM. And wondering if you can comment how this particular finding and recommendations align or do not
align with already in-flight changes.
Just if you wouldn't mind, just a few comments on what we knew at the staff level, what processes and
procedures we've been changing, and how that aligns with both the recommendation and also the risk
identified here.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may? Mr. Chair. Yes, thank you very much, Director Dishell. So you're
absolutely right. These are elements that we are already cognizant of as staff. Quite naturally, we had
already retained the services of a consultant who was looking at our transit asset management plan in the
sense of looking at the maturity level of said document.
As we speak to this primarily about fleet revenue and non-revenue vehicles, there was a practice in the
organization if, in fact, funding was available, we should take advantage of said funding. We are in a process
of developing key elements around how we pursue discretionary grants, be they at the federal level or local
grants.
We want to ensure that we have a project and that we have a need. More specifically, as we talk about our
fleet holistically, there were some decisions made because it appears as if it would be great to get some
new propulsion system relative to a vehicle that we may have not necessarily needed. And so we have
basically ensured that we are not doing that going forward.
We're looking at documentation relative to the useful life of a vehicle, be it 12 years or 500,000 miles, and
more or less to the point that was raised, this needs to be memorialized as in certain instances, we were
keeping documents in disparate places. Going forward, this will be par for the course. I don't want to jump
ahead because this also has to do with the spare ratio in reference to us having a waiver from the federal
government.
Having just returned from Washington, DC last night, the acting federal administrator recognizes the need
that we have to adapt to the fare ratio-- sorry, not the fare ratio-- the spare ratio, recognizing that spare ratio
was put into place decades ago, when the primary mode of-- I shouldn't say the primary propulsion system
was diesel.
And we have different needs, especially with the adverse impacts of COVID, and how many transit agencies
across the country did not have the same peak period vehicles being utilized. So I hope that provides you
some color as it relates to where we are. I do see Mr. Worthen's hand raised. So Mr. Chair-- not Mr. Chair,
Director Davidson, in this meeting, if I could yield the floor to Mr. Worthen to add some more context, I
greatly would appreciate it. Mr. Worthen?

FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. And thank you, Mr. Chair. With regard to support fleet, also,
the one thing that I would say is that it is difficult to always plan for support fleet replacements because we
do have incidents where vehicles can be totaled. And those are unplanned replacements.
We do have a process, though, that we follow to actually go outside of the TAM to replace those vehicles.
But we have had incidents where support vehicles have been totaled in accidents themselves. So Ms.
Johnson has covered the spare ratio, but we'll get to that a little bit later.
But part of the reason why the numbers don't match up is we made a decision to downsize our fleet to help
get the spare ratio closer to the 20%. So we only replaced critical vehicles that we needed that were aging
or needed for service itself. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for that. It's very helpful. And Mr. Chair, if I may, just one quick
follow up? Thank you. I also just noticed in here, and I think I wanted to understand where we were here
before going to this, which is that the risk that was identified was that it could increase the risk of insufficient
funds being available.
Did we identify any instances where that risk was realized? Where there were insufficient funds? Or are we
at any risk in the remainder of what's in the TAM for any insufficient funds?
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Worthen or Mr. MacLeod, either one.
FRED WORTHEN: I'll defer to Mr. MacLeod.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah your hand is still up, Mr. Worthen.
DOUG MACLEOUD: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. And no, none that we've identified. The committee-- all the
committee members may not be aware of the full fiscal policy. However, our goal has been in the past-- let
me back up, in the past, RT has primarily relied on lease purchase agreements for its vehicles to certificates
of participation.
So in the past, we've borrowed money to make these large purchases of bus replacements, for example.
What we've been doing for the last several years is not borrowing additional [INAUDIBLE] funding that's
under the current mid-term financial-- six-year mid-term financial plan, we don't see any issues with us
needing to go and not be able to cash fundings and have to borrow money. We don't anticipate that
changing beyond that point as well.
As Mr. Worthen mentioned, as we reduce fleet size in accordance with the spare ratios, we think that all
comes in being able to continue to fund things just simply with cash on hand. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Thanks, Mr. Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Anything further from committee members? Mr. MacLeod, is that an old
hand? Yes. OK, Mr. Marino.
MATT MARINO: So we'll go to the observation 2. This also received a high risk rating. So this has to do
with the data collection and analysis. So if you look at the way data is collected at RTD, there's-- we have
the trapeze enterprise risk enterprise asset management system. And so really, that data is not always
easy to get out and do the analysis on.

So when we're making our asset decisions, so the recommendation is we need to establish an agencywide data management policy that outlines what kinds of data we need to have in there, when it should be
stored, how it should be managed, all that. And then we also need to train the staff on getting the data out
of the various systems that we have. So that those can be used by the different functional units when
making asset management decisions.
Not seeing any hands, so I'll proceed through. The next one, it was rated as a moderate. It's observation 3.
So this has to do with asset management procedures, revenue and non-revenue. And so this really has to
do with the asset renewal policies and focus on the practice of accountability. So overall, the
recommendation management should consider developing standard operating procedures that outline the
different activities for both fleet revenue and non-revenue and clearly define the different roles and
responsibilities.
Also should define clear lines of communication to facilitate the handover from a project from one unit to
another. Because as you'll probably notice throughout this entire audit process, there's many, many units
that are involved in asset management. You have your people managing the bus part. You have your
people managing the light rail vehicles part. You have people doing the financial part. And all that data
needs to easily flow between the different areas.
So the next one has to do with-- and also observation 4, moderate priority. So we-- a system of record for
RTD's inventory of asset information has not been established. So as I've mentioned a little bit earlier, we
have several different systems that are responsible for housing asset related data. So you have Trapeze.
We also have Oracle Financial fixed financial assets. We have the midterm financial plan.
And so really, the recommendation is that we should consider establishing a primary system for all that fleet
revenue and non-revenue vehicles and make sure that information between the different systems are easily
obtained, and reviewed, and reconciled. So management has provided a management action plan below.
Not seeing any hands raised on item 4. Observation 5 has to do the preventative maintenance plan. So
there-- this was rated moderate. There were times that we deviated from the recommended or established
maintenance plans for different vehicles. Overall cause, there was a lack of quality control and a little bit of
lack of staffing with regard to monitoring that.
So the recommendation we have is to improve the preventative maintenance plan by making sure that the
quality control and spot checks are happening more often. Incorporate manufacturers' preventative
maintenance specs in the preventative maintenance plan. And management has provided a management
action plan there. I see Committee member Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: What was the most egregious thing that you saw? Is this just as a result of lack of
appropriate staff-- not appropriate-- I guess just lack of staff to get these things done in a timely manner? I
mean, how far deviating from the 10% threshold did you guys see?
MATT MARINO: I won't speak on egregiousness because preventative maintenance is not my expertise.
But we did note some of the specific items, where we're either exceeding the mileage recommended. Or
sometimes, we're doing maintenance before it's recommended either because-- but I see Mr. Worthen has
his hand up. So I'll let him speak to that better.

FRED WORTHEN: Yeah so I would say that in the vehicle maintenance area, we-- during the time of this
audit, at one point, we were at a 30% vacancy rate among our general repair. We've closed the gap on
that. We're down to-- I'm sorry. I have a phone call coming in. I closed the gap to about 18% right now.
So we are doing better on that. And we've also got a component change out program up to par as well. But
part of the problem that we had was just the general lack of general repair and support vehicle mechanics
at that time. We were really very, very understaffed. And even with all the overtime that was being worked,
it was challenging during that time period to maintain the fleet.
But we're doing a lot better. We've made great inroads, not only at general repair, but our service and
cleaning is almost fully staffed right now. So we're working on getting the head count back up to a normal
range.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And, Mr. Chair, if I may?
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. And thank you, Mr. Worthen, for that. And I just wanted to
call out for those members that are on the board of directors, recognizing when we talk about recruitment
and retention, oftentimes, the conversation goes to operators. I just wanted to amplify the point that when
we talk about the criticality of the positions in which we're not hiring for, they're not the operators that
everyone sees. We're talking about individuals that can ensure that we're keeping our assets in a state of
good repair. And that includes our rolling stock, as well as our facilities, and our infrastructure. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Mr. Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Just one follow-up question, it's probably for management, because I don't believe
that this would be within the scope of this audit. But do you guys have an internal process for ensuring that
pre-trip inspections are performed?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, I was-- if I may, Mr. Chair, that is one thing that is required and regulated as
we work with the Colorado DOT. And they come in and do inspections as well as at the federal level as well
to the triennial audit that I referenced earlier. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
MATT MARINO: OK, I'm not seeing any further hands going up. So I'll proceed to item 6. Item 6 has to do
with the fleet non-revenue vehicle assignment. So we noted that there were, of the selected sample of nonrevenue vehicles, there was just really kind of a lack of ability to find the documentation with regard to who
might have been assigned that vehicle and how that all works.
So the recommendation, management should provide guidelines to the divisions on maintaining evidence
of the authorization forms regarding the approval and authorization to different management of using nonrevenue vehicles. This was a moderate priority recommendation. And management has provided their
action plan below.
So observation 7 has to do with condition assessment, moderate priority. It look-- it was noted that there
was a difference between the benchmark used for buses of 14 years that the FTA recommends. And that
we also have a benchmark that's used for financial reporting purposes. And that we, as an agency, are
routinely exceeding the useful life by about two to three years over that 14-year period.

Management considered-- should consider using a consistent, useful life benchmark for fleet revenue
vehicles to ensure accuracy with the inventory and just the overall Federal Transit Administration funding
eligibility requirements. Management has talked about their action plan there. And target date of bringing
this all together would be June 30 of 2025. Director Davidson, I think,
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Director Davidson, go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I just wanted to-- this was one where the management action plan kind of
clarifies that actually, these differences will continue. They won't actually change. But there could be some
improvement to reconciliation. I just wonder if Mr. MacLeod wouldn't mind commenting on the details of
that and what actually will change as a result of the management action plan.
And you know, that almost-- it's interesting it's a moderate priority. So I'm just wondering if you might just
expand on this a little bit further in terms of the finding, the discussions that had at the staff level, and what
actually will change, if anything, out of the management action plan.
DOUG MACLEOUD: Mr. Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
DOUG MACLEOUD: Yes, thank you, Chair Davidson, for the question, exactly. And we've got-- we basically
have two different versions of the numbers. So number one is the asset management plan that really looks
at the state-- the expected useful life benchmark of an asset, such as a bus. And Fred and his team, Mr.
Worthen and his team, obviously, want to get the most use out of those buses in a safe manner throughout
their useful life.
The other way that we show those assets is according to generally accepted accounting principles, where
we book on our financial statements, the value of that original purchase price of that bus. And then we
depreciate that bus over a period of time. Generally, it depends on the type of bus. So let's say 12 years,
we depreciate that.
However, we may actually determine that bus has a useful life of 13, or 14, or more years based on mileage
and other condition assessments that the operations do. So we are required to report according to GAAP,
with a consistent application by asset class of depreciation, which can differ from the actual usage of those
assets and their total useful life.
So what we agreed to in the action plan was that we would do a reconciliation between the financial system
and the asset management system amongst those assets to determine the difference in depreciation by
asset and be able to report on that. And I think that was a valuable finding just to keep us periodically
reviewing to make sure that both sets of records match, although we will have reconciling items within
depreciation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great, Thank you. That answers my question. I appreciate it.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: So with this one, so say we got a bus that's 16 years old and Mr. Worthen's group
has not had any issues with it, it's working great. One of the risks in here, it sounded like there was a risk
to losing federal funding if we don't adhere to the benchmark time. Are we-- is the recommendation that we
are getting rid of buses at the 14-year mark, or are we going to still continue to evaluate-- I mean, it almost

sounds like we're going to still continue to evaluate things as they go and say, OK, we're at 15 years on this
bus. Do we keep it, or do we salvage it, what do we do?
And then I was also a little bit not completely understanding the value of the reconciling book life versus
actual life. I mean, it sounds like if it's a 12-year asset, it's a 12-year asset. And that's not going to change
for GAAP purposes. But in actuality, that 12-year asset may last 14. The federal, the FTA benchmark,
maybe it lasts 16. And I want to make sure that we're not saying, well, FTA is 14, so after 14 years, it's out
of here, when maybe it has some good useful life on it.
DOUG MACLEOUD: Mr. Chair, I might ask Mr. Worthen to comment on the operational issues in terms of
determining the useful life of those assets.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Mr. Chair, that's a great question. This is a complicated answer. And this
really is a precursor to our existing spare ratio. When the economic downturn occurred during COVID, of
course, we cut our services by 40%. One of the decisions we made was to maintain our fleet because there
was a belief that the COVID would be short lived and we would return to pre-COVID levels.
So we made a decision not to downsize the fleet, but to hang on to vehicles. At the same time, we had the
System Optimization Plan which was underway as well. So we also wanted to preserve vehicles to make
sure we had the vehicles available to be able to meet the System Optimization Plan and return to service.
So we held on to vehicles a little longer than what we would normally term their useful life to make sure that
if we decided to restore service at a more aggressive level, if we had resources available, we would have
vehicles to fill the gap.
Unfortunately, I think everybody is well aware of the fact that people power still hasn't returned to the level
that we have liked. So we are in the process of getting rid of a lot of those vehicles that are in the 16, 17,
and 18 year mark between the end of this year and early next year as part of our fleet downsizing plan for
the spare ratio to get our spare ratio back within the FTA guidelines of 20%.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Mr. Marino?
MATT MARINO: Yes, just wanted to comment on the importance of just understanding the delta between
what we're using for a useful life per the FTA and what we might be using for financial reporting. As a
reminder, depreciation for financial reporting is an estimate. And so we just need to understand is that delta- could that result in a material misstatement of the financial statement?
So that's why it's important to understand if we're going longer than 12 years consistently, do we need to
maybe change our depreciation method for financial reporting to be more accurately portrayal of the actual
use of that asset? And so that's why it's important to monitor that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Worthen?
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I failed to mention one other thing, too. Even though we do have
a 12 year versus 14 year variation in the FTA policies, we do have some challenges where we are going to
need to replace vehicles at 12 years, regardless of their condition because of commitments to the Colfax
BRT project.

The Colfax BRT project will require roughly 50 vehicles to run center lane. That means that the vehicles will
have to have doors on the left side. Unfortunately, none of my vehicles are equipped to do that. So we've
designed a fleet plan to basically begin replacing those vehicles to meet our federal BRT commitments to
small starts with Denver County to operate the Colfax BRT.
So sometimes, it's a little difficult because some of the management decisions are beyond just what is
useful life. We have to meet the needs of our service as well. So I just wanted to add that in as a little
context.
BOBBY DISHELL: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. And Mr. Worthen, thank you for that. Just to provide some more
context for those who may not be familiar, the Colfax Bus Rapid Transit project, recognizing that it is a new
start, and it's deemed a BRT, which means it has its own guideway, fixed guideway, those buses that Mr.
Worthen is talking about, currently, they're in our fleet as standard buses, as they operate as the 15 and
the 15 limited. The 15 and the 15 limited go away and become Bus Rapid Transit. Hence, the transition
with those vehicles and the need to procure new ones to accommodate the center running platform. Thank
you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you for that clarification, Ms. Johnson.
BOBBY DISHELL: Anything further from committee members?
MATT MARINO: OK, I'll proceed. We'll go on to observation 8, which has to do with the vehicle spare ratio.
This did have a moderate risk rating. So we did exceed the 20% spare ratio as recommended by FTA-- or
not recommended, mandated by FTA. So we have a plan on record with FTA to reduce the spare ratio
down within the limits by basically 2027. I see Director Davidson's hand went up. So I'll go ahead and take
his question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Mr. Chair, good to go?
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I think Mr. Worthen may have touched on this a little bit when we've been
alluding to the spare vehicle ratio and some of the prior discussions. But I just wanted to double check. So
are we setting the ratio-- the target ratio for based around the System Optimization Plan, our most recent
comprehensive operational analysis, in other words, what will be needed given that we're not at the revenue
service hours that we would be at? Is it set to plan? And is that why it's 2027? I see Mr. Worthen's hand is
up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Chair. Great question, Chair Davidson. Yes, and there's a little other caveat
to add to this. Part of it is having the fleet available to ensure that we meet the System Optimization Plan.
And our final number is in projections of what we will be providing as service at that time.
The other reason why it's taken, though, through 2027 is if we retire a vehicle before 12 years and there's
federal dollars assigned, then we have to repay the federal government for those dollars. So that is part of
the reason why we had a fairly large purchase of MCIs just prior to COVID hitting us. And if we were to

retire those vehicles, we could owe the federal government quite a bit of money. So it's a combination of
holding on for the SOP, plus making sure that we don't retire before 12 years.
BOBBY DISHELL: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. And just one quick thing, Mr. Worthen said MCIs. That's
the name of the original equipment manufacturer. MCIs are actually are over-the-road coaches that are
used for the Flatiron Flyer services along US 36.
One thing that I wanted just to put forward for this committee's edification, is that while we have this here
at 2027, should there be another audit, that could change possibly going forward to the point that raised
being involved with discussions relative to the onslaught of low and zero emission vehicles, recognizing
that spare ratio, pertaining to my earlier comments, is not very conducive.
I've spoken with my peers and have been a part of various task forces. Whereby we are really advocating
for a higher spare ratio, recognizing the limitations of having vehicles assigned to blocks due to the fact that
a diesel could go 400 or 500 miles in one day. And contingent upon the operating environment and the
terrain, you could have a lower no emissions vehicle that basically would struggle doing half of that. Thank
you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Mr. Worthen?
FRED WORTHEN: One other thing to add too. Thank you for that, Ms. Johnson. When we submitted our
plan to the FTA, one of the things that we did say is that we would do an annual review with the General
Manager and CEO to make sure that our fleet plan is in alignment with what our needs will be.
So each year, we will be reviewing this. We'll be submitting an update to the FTA on where we are with
progress. And again, if there's any need to modify this fleet plan, that will be submitted to the FTA as well.
Thank you, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. And just for clarity, the target date of 2027, it sounds like part of the-- the
management action plan could almost be bifurcated, because it shouldn't take until 2027 for the division
responsible for the agency's spare ratio, but might take until 2027 just to get the buses there. Is there a way
to sort of bifurcate that plan and have different timelines for each aspect? Mr. Marino, that might go outside
of the way audits are typically done. But was just curious if we could split that up a little bit.
MATT MARINO: I think the overall management action plan was just when we would get in compliance with
the spare ratio of 20% or below. But I understand what you're saying. We'll work on monitoring that and
reporting back to the extent that we can show progress. Does that help?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, that's helpful because I think, looking at the cause, the cause is lack of
responsibility and accountability for the spare ratio. And the action plan is sort of we're going to get there.
But it doesn't necessarily address the root cause.
MATT MARINO: Correct, well, and I think part of that accountability would be the annual review with GM
Johnson about where the spare ratio is and how that might align or misalign with where we need to be.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, if we could get that just clarified in that management action plan, making sure that
that's in there, that annual review with the GM/CEO, that would be great. Just so that-- for the board's-- for
the broader board and for the public, that's clarified.

MATT MARINO: Understood. Can do. OK, observation 9 was a lower process improvement. We did notice
a couple times where items that were either retired or disposed of didn't get fully disposed of within all the
various systems and documentation. The overall recommendation is to make sure that the full completion
and submission of all the disposal information is routed throughout the organization and they're disposed
correctly, fully in the various systems and so on. So this will be target date of Q1 of 2024. So this will be
slated to be monitored very quickly here.
BOBBY DISHELL: But we're past Q1 '24.
MATT MARINO: Yes, so we have already asked for the monitoring information. And so-BOBBY DISHELL: OK.
MATT MARINO: Q1-- go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Has that been submitted? The authorization of disposal memo for these to get it? Is that
already been done? And we just are working through getting it to IA? Or is it working to get it done here
quickly?
FRED WORTHEN: Mr. Chair, if I may answer.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: So a couple of points, first and foremost, these vehicles were not replaced intentionally.
At the point of this audit, we were actually going through looking at our non-revenue vehicles and trying to
rightsize our non-revenue support fleet to our needs itself. So there was a pin put in replacement of vehicles
while we were going through process of developing some internal processes and procedures around
vehicle replacement and making sure that we actually needed these vehicles.
We do have a disposal process, though, that we follow itself. We do monitor the vehicles. And there is an
authorization that goes all the way through the CEO. I sign off on vehicles to be disposed of and it goes to
the CEO.
BOBBY DISHELL: So for the two vehicles, that issue, has that occurred?
FRED WORTHEN: Yeah, oh yes.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK, great. So we just need to get that paperwork over to internal audit then? And then
this should be closed out, this observation?
MATT MARINO: Affirmative.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: I don't see any further hands. So this is observation 10, fixed asset account reconciliation.
So it was noted that the fixed asset reconciliation is performed on an annual basis. There was no evidence
of the review and approval of the reconciliation for December 2022. So the recommendation is that we
obviously should consider doing it a little more often than annually. So we are recommending quarterly.
And that the-- management should require review and approval of that reconciliation process. So this was

given a low or process improvement recommendation and a target date of Q1 of 2024. And Mr. Eaton is
responsible for it.
Observation 11 was related to performance measures. It was rated with a low or process improvement. It
was noted that the agency uses several different things to look at the replacement of fleet revenue and nonrevenue vehicles. That we have not developed measures, including cost performance, equity utilization,
and other risk measures to support the investment prioritization process.
So the recommendation is that we should develop the key measures that we would like to look at when
we're doing different fleet revenue and non-revenue vehicles, investment prioritization processes. This will
be completed during Q2 of 2024. That brings us to the end of the presentation with regard to the fleet
revenue and non-revenue vehicles review.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Any questions. I know Chair Davidson, you mentioned you had some questions
or comments. I have some as well. So love to hear general questions and comments here that folks may
have. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. Have a very general high level question that I think is largely
for General Manager and CEO Johnson, which is, we've been now going through, several audits. And Mr.
Marino, thank you to you and your team, and CFO McLeod for working closely together here.
But we have a number of things that are high priorities and moderate priorities that are collecting. And, from
the whole agency standpoint, we're dealing with people power challenges that we're addressing. Also, we
have our external audits, and not just Office of the State Auditor, but also things that we're reporting to the
FTA.
So I recognize that we have a number of significant priorities aligning. So at some point, it may make sense
as we acquire these recommendations, to have-- General Manager, CEO, I can't help it, here's one of your
favorite terms, holistic view of all of our priorities and what the intersection is with various staff members,
and leaders, and also alignment with other audits and other reports that we're creating.
So we can make sure that we're optimizing our efforts. So I have a general high level question. And it may
require the expertise of Mr. Marino, you and your team, in terms of how to approach answering this. But I
think first, starting from general manager and CEO Johnson, are we at any point of being concerned around
too many high priorities, too many moderate priorities, where we need to be staging things out and looking
for alignment, particularly as it relates to our people power available to us?
I'm wondering if you could just comment on that, since we've gone from limited visibility to a lot of visibility
on these audits, which is a byproduct of great work happening in this group. So Ms. Johnson, hopefully
that's enough to expound upon. But I'd be interested in your input on that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Mr. Chair, if I may.
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. So, Director Davidson, that's a very great question. And my team and I
have had conversations around that because while we may look at this organization in a holistic fashion,
there are just a set group of people that are working on this, quite naturally, at the leadership level with their
teams. And we're being asked to do a lot with less.

So with that as a backdrop, recognizing that John MacKay, who serves as my executive business partner
and has auspices over some program analysts, we were doing just what you outlined in reference to see
where the synergies are because we-- audits are great. And my viewpoint is that enables us to get better.
But we do need to showcase where the priorities rest.
And so we are in the process of doing that. And I believe maybe there was a conversation at a very loose
level that Mr. MacLeod may have had with Mr. Marino as I broached that concern, as I had that once I
spoke with members of my leadership team. So I think it would be advantageous for all of us to discern
what might be optimal for us to ensure that there is continuous improvement without burning out staff.
Because if everything is a priority and it's a high one, then nothing is a priority. So that's what I would offer
up to the discussion. So we are more than amenable to actually putting that forward and providing that to
our audit executive if that is-- if that is the desire of this group. I know from a staff level and as the leader of
this organization, my team and I would appreciate that immensely. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO. Mr Chair, if I may just follow up briefly?
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So just yeah, I'm curious then, Mr. Marino, if you wouldn't mind weighing in, because I
think what I'm looking for is it sounds like we are getting to that point where it'd be helpful for this group to
be able to see how-- where those priorities are, how things align. And just curious how you might approach
that, if you're already thinking about that, which it sounds like there's been some discussion.
I'll defer to the chair of this committee here, but it sounds like there may be some visibility that we might be
able to bring to this group. So, Mr. Marino, if you wouldn't mind weighing in on just what might be possible
or how you might approach that as the audit executive.
MATT MARINO: Yes, I definitely agree with GM Johnson about the looking at the different high priority
items and making sure that we're not only looking at that, but also gathering the additional information we've
gotten from other audits that aren't necessarily being produced by internal audit. And really, I would default
us back to using our risk rating and kind of looking at where the audit was overall as a risk, how big of a
risk is an individual observation with regard to just the organization as a whole.
Have we gotten any other data that might even further magnify that risk rating and really prioritizing based
on risk rating, because that's really probably the best tool we have to manage the organization, but make
sure we're not burning out our organization as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think-- I know we have another hour here, Mr. Davidson. Is that good on your
end?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It is. Just I think it's something to consider. And yeah, I'll defer back to you, Mr. Chair.
Thank you for the comments on that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Director Catlin, I saw your hand up and then it went down or-PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Davidson really captured much more eloquently than I
would have some of my concerns about staff burnout and-- as GM CEO Johnson said, if everything's a high
priority, there is no priority. And that-- very well said. So thank you. That was all I had.

But I also wanted to comment that I actually-- and thank you, Mr. Worthen, for participating. I actually
learned quite a bit in this call, things I did not know and perhaps I should have been more aware of. For
example, the new fleet required for the BRT on Colfax. It never occurred to me that with a center-- center
boarding, it didn't even dawn on me that it would require a different type of vehicle. So I just wanted to
comment that this was a good discussion.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And if I may, Mr. Chair?
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Catlin just made me think of something else. It's a requirement. This may not
come across right, and I'm not trying to be the skunk at the garden party, but that's the difference with true
Bus Rapid Transit. There are requirements that you have to have a subfleet dedicated to a BRT program.
And it has exclusive right of way. And that's why when you hear me comment about the Flatiron Flyer, when
folks were utilizing that term as Bus Rapid Transit, when I came into this organization, I'm like, that's not
bus rapid transit. That's a over the road coach and mixed use traffic. So anyway, there you have it. Thank
you for indulging me.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And you are right. BRT-- the term BRT is used rather loosely around here.
So thank you for reminding us of that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think what I'm hearing, I think, certainly would be helpful from my end, Mr. Marino,
I think in working with Mr. Kroll and staff would be if we were to map out, right, for the audits you've
completed, you look at Q1, 2, 3, 4, this year, next year, it sounds like, I think, through '27 is where we are.
And if we want to use green, yellow, red, low, moderate, high priority, almost something that maps out, hey,
this is when all of these things are coming due. And as a committee, we can look at these-- look at them
against the assessment and decide, hey, what really is a moderate priority? What really is a high priority,
and sort of all work together to prioritize the priorities, for lack of a better term.
I was wondering if you've done that for other organizations, what that might look like just because there are
so many moving pieces. And I think because time is linear, probably the easiest one to use is the axis
against which we're looking at all these different cards, so to speak, from a project management standpoint.
And I think it would probably be Mr. Kroll as well as maybe Mr. McKay to identify the point person on each
and what their staffing looks like. I think that would probably be instrumental for this group. Curious what
folks' thoughts are on that type of approach. Mr. Marino?
MATT MARINO: Yes, I was going to say, I definitely think we should apply our risk rating to the different
actual recommendations and then also gather any additional information that might further enhance that
risk rating or mitigate the risk rating. And then we'll bring back to you a new-- what we'll call a comprehensive
risk rating.
The risk rating that was done at time was more at that point in time. But it's now been many, many months
since that was originally done. And the organization has changed. The world is dynamic. So I would propose
that we would look at the individual recommendations, apply our risk rating originally, and then adjust the
risk rating for any new factors and then report back to you all.
BOBBY DISHELL: That sounds great. I think just given this board meets during the day-- or this-- excuse
me-- this committee meets during the day. Is that something where we could do it in a month, just given

we're looking at letting some of the other items slip a little bit. Is that something where we need to extend
our June meeting or schedule an additional June meeting? What timing are you thinking of on that
deliverable?
MATT MARINO: Well, I know part of what will take up some of our June meeting, and Mr. McCloud, correct
me, is we'll discuss the results of the external audit. So we might want to consider either extending or
creating a separate meeting just because I don't want to have meeting overload. It shouldn't be a huge lift
to apply risk ratings, gather relevant data, and come up with a new current risk rating for all of our different
recommendations as well as considering people power as well.
So I think that can be doable. But I do have concerns that we would maybe have too much with all of the
audits that likely will be issued, as well as the external audit report and other items.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great so a late May-- is a late May meeting enough time for you to put that together and
map out the different recommendations, get the input you need? So that the Board Office can work to get
something scheduled mid-May? Or are we really looking at having two meetings in June?
MATT MARINO: I would defer to Mr. MacLeod, because I know they're probably in the midst of finalizing
the external audit and some of the other things. So I would like to get his input.
DOUG MACLEOUD: Thank you. And yeah, I think-- based on what I'm looking at, our next Audit Committee
meeting is in July. We do not have one scheduled in June. So potentially, if we needed to schedule another
audit in June.
BOBBY DISHELL: I apologize it is July. So is June, Mr. MacLeod is your-- Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may. Recognizing that we are still finalizing the time frame with the reviewers from
the Federal Transit Administration and they will be on site. I just put that out there for consideration. I know
we had tentatively selected a date, Mr. MacLeod, but recognizing it's around the Juneteenth holiday, that
we may have an entire week.
So I am putting that out there because I don't want to not have individuals available, such as yourself, that
need to be with the reviewers for the triennial readily available.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right. Recognizing it sounds like there's more there, why don't we leave it to Mr.
Marino, and Mr. Kroll, and Mr. McKay, and everyone's various groups to-- it sounds like, at the end of the
day, our July meeting is not going to be sufficient necessarily from a time standpoint to get all of this done.
So let's look at getting something else on the calendar June, July that works for everyone's schedule and
allows everyone time to come together on the deliverables to review this and help prioritize the priorities.
MATT MARINO: Will do.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, wonderful. OK, are there any further comments or questions from the committee
on the reports we reviewed? Are there any other matters to discuss? Seeing none, the next Audit Committee
is scheduled, as of this moment, for July 11 at 11:00 AM. As discussed, it is likely there will be an audit
committee meeting soon before then or possibly after. Seeing no other discussion, this meeting is adjourned
at 12:15 PM. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.

DOUG MACLEOUD: Thank you.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you, everyone.

