Jun 11 2019 0530 PM Financial Administration &
Audit Committee Committee SD 480
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KEN MIHALIK: Meeting to order. Tonight, we have three recommended actions and a handful
of updates. Just want to see real fast, I know Director Walker was going to join us on phone. Are
you there yet?
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): Yeah, I'm here.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. The first of the three recommended actions reads as follows. "It is
recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee that
the Board of Directors approves the General Manager's goals for 2020, as defined in the attached
General Manager's performance evaluation document." Is there a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale and Director Williams. Director Broom, I'll allow
you to elaborate, as necessary.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I think Dave had a few comments he wanted to make.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, OK. General Manager Genova.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So just to let the full Board know, we've had two
meetings, the General Manager Oversight Committee, where we've actually gone through the
core and the task goals. And the first one I presented, the proposed core and task goals, received
comments.
Made some modifications, came back at the second meeting, and they were all approved. So
these items have been approved by the GMOC Committee. Assuming they're approved tonight,
the next step in the process would be going to Executive Committee on Thursday, and then to the
full Board at the next full Board meeting. So I'm happy to answer any questions if there are any.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten, you have the first question or comment.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Yes, I'll just go to packet page 3, "Financial Impact, No
Financial Impact in Approving the 2020 Goals." Besides specific tasks, as we would encounter
them, what would be the best way to gauge what our financial impact is to our wish list that
came out of the retreat?

DAVE GENOVA: Well, of the items that have arrived, and I think there was a question at one of
the committee meetings about what I thought might be larger ticket items on here. And really,
most of the items are human resource related, for the most part. And keeping in mind that we
have a five-year constrained midterm financial plan. We're targeting to stay within what our
2020 approved target was in the midterm financial plan.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So I don't get a dollar amount of that. It's difficult for me to approve
them when I'm blind. I am unable to put a dollar amount. I know I've said it before, but when we
said we'd like to, whatever the statement was, the retreat provided a transportation transformation
that came in at $4.7 million to look at our service plan, that was a big dollar amount for me.
And in our big budget, maybe not so much, but still, it's a lot. So it's difficult. I was one that
asked, what are the big ticket items? I would have loved to have almost a Yelp kind of a thing,
where one dollar sign, five dollar sign, something like that within our goals, because it's really
just a wish list that we gave.
And right now we're approving it, but it doesn't say we don't know. It says no financial impact.
So that really should be amended, or should be really addressed. Yes?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I don't know if I'll further confuse the situation or hopefully clarify
it, but remember, the idea behind the goals is to drive the upcoming budget in midterm financial
plan. So until we know what the goals are, we struggle with putting together the midterm
financial plan. Now, we've been working off this draft set of goals since March in putting
together our midterm financial plan. I can tell you, there are some items in that midterm financial
plan that address these things, and we can try to point those out to you when we go through that
process.
We also, I believe, have one in the amended plan that would deal with being able to get ready to
address this. So we can point that out to you, but I think you're asking for putting the cart before
the horse, in that how do we know what it's going to cost until we know what your goals are.
And then based on your goals, we'll develop a midterm financial plan and a budget around that,
and then that will be what we need to be able to implement these things.
So to me, it would be backwards if we knew what it was going to cost before we knew what you
were going to approve for us to have to do. As we go through this, we can point things out, as we
go through the midterm and stuff, the things in there that directly support these. But remember,
all of the things that we do operationally support getting us to the performance measures and
meeting the KPIs and everything. So in essence, you could say our entire budget every year is
structured around trying to make sure that we're carrying out all of these things.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I understand it is a challenge, and to me, it's a vicious little circle.
But it's also hard for me to vote yes when then there is no financial impact in proving the goals,
but when I know there is. And yet, we have to approve the goals before you start to work in
greater detail on them.

So I'll just vote no tonight so that I ensure that we have further conversation and not a consent
agenda item here when we go to the full Board meeting. And perhaps then, you and I can find
time, maybe, to at least go over a few of those things that have been identified. OK. All right.
Thanks. That's it.
Oh, one last item. I have been very, very clear that, for me, one of the most important things is
financial transparency expanded, detailed, line by line. And I still don't have confirmation that
that is in these goals. So that, in itself, will probably be one of the biggest driving factors of what
would generate a no vote tonight and, potentially, one at the full Board meeting. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. And thanks, Heather, for clearing that up. Director Catlin,
you're next.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I attended the GMOC meetings, even though I'm not a member,
but I was following with interest. And I just wanted to acknowledge that our wish list, as
Director Menten talked about this, is pretty ambitious. And I respect that it's going to be very
challenging for staff.
But I also wanted to acknowledge that because these are the Board's priorities moving forward,
that there are likely to be some trade-offs, and there may be some things that do not get
accomplished that some of us may have wanted to see. And I think when we see the midterm
financial plan, that may become evident.
But I just wanted to say that I acknowledge that and I understand that, and that if the priorities
moving forward are these goals, then I recognize that there are also going to be some maybe
tough trade-offs and tough decisions to be made. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I haven't attended the GMOC meeting, and this is late. So I'll just voice a
wish, just in case something that can move forward. Under ridership, and I'm grateful and glad to
see the objective under exceeded expectations about-- yeah, thank you. It's on page 89 of the
packet.
And it's the very last task goal, number 5, last part of this whole section-- "Evaluate relevant
information, such as the fare structure modeling and data from the past program working group
to determine what fiscally sustainable-- and I'd say even beneficial-- possible changes to fare or
structure may positively impact ridership."
And then Director Lubow had suggested the addition of a pilot project, which I thought was
great, too. But I'd love to see this move to achieved goal, is my request or thought. And I can just
kind of ask you for any feedback about that and discuss with some other Board members and
decide whether or not to try to bring that up later. That's all. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I have a few. So I was sort of able to attend the meeting. And I
am really just going to speak procedurally right now because I think it's important. So I work,
like many of us do, a full-time job. And when we receive the dates that we need to be available, I
usually will put those on my calendar, as well as take that time off.
And so when times change and there's no communication from RTD, that sometimes excludes
folks from being able to participate in the conversation that they would like to have participated
in. So the meeting changed from 3:30 to 3 o'clock, and I arrived just as folks were voting on the
approval of these.
And I did have some additions. I wanted to talk about some diversity with SLT. I also wanted to
talk about the safety and security. So the whole package is actually not coming up on our screens
today and so I can't find the Board packet, the page number, that I'd like to have addressed. But
there were a number where the term "safety and security" were added in terms of engagement.
And I wanted to discuss that because I think safety and security is one topic we should be talking
about with our communities, but I think we could expand that content as well, to talk about
multiple issues with communities. And then there was also-- [INAUDIBLE] of being very
specific, there were numbers attached to the T2 (Transportation Transformation).
So there were like, eight meetings. I can't remember them off the top of my head. Again, they're
not here. And all of those had numbers attached to them, and the only one that did not was the
stakeholder engagement, so like broader community engagement, and that's quite concerning as
we're
[VIDEO OUT]
DOUG TISDALE: Moved approval.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: While that's coming up.
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): I'm voting yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. So yes. Chair Tisdale's the mover. Director Williams, the
second. And with Director Walker's yes, it does pass 10 yeses and three no's, being Director
Menten, Director Lewis, and Director Malpiede. Thank you.
Now we're on to the second recommended action, and this is regarding the pass program
phasing, price phasing from three to five years. It is recommended by the Finance and
Administration Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or
his designee, to move the phasing of the price increase, due to the 2019 fare changes for College
Pass, Eco Pass, and Neighborhood Eco Pass, from a three-year phase-in period to a five-year
phase-in period.

This would extend the 20% cap on price increases to not only year 2019 and 2020, but also years
2021 and 2022, with the full implementation of the fare increase in 2023. And this supports the
General Manager's core goal-- core goal-- number 3 of strong financial management. Is there a
motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: I move.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Williams and Guissinger. And Heather, I know you are
close to the subject so I'll let you fill us in.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So just real quickly. We brought this up as an informational item last
month. We had received a lot of input, I'd say, after we passed the fare changes last year, and we
had been meeting for months and months, the various stakeholders. And one of the things, I
actually mentioned several things in there that we were able to do without Board approval, but
this particular item does have a financial impact, so we wanted to bring it forward.
We got very positive feedback at the Board meeting last month, so that's why it's being brought
forward for recommendation for approval and action. And also, just a timing issue. One of the
reasons we brought it forward is because we're in the middle of the midterm financial plan and
we can make those adjustments now versus having you approve the plan and then make those
adjustments sometime next year at the end of this year, where they'd have a lot more dramatic
impact on our finances than they would doing it right now, when we're in the middle of the
process. So with that, I'd be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Broom, you are first.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Does this mean that this phase-in goes beyond the three-year
period of fares and we'll be resetting fares before this is completed?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct. And we took that in consideration when we did that
20% capping. So assuming that we have a fare increase in 2022, this would also cap that fare
increase for those same people for another two years, 2022. And then the full impact would go
into 2023. And that was modeled as part of these numbers that I gave you in here.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather, I'm very much in support of this. And
going through the pass program working group, this was a big issue that came up over and over
again of how it was going to affect what these groups were paying and what their participation
and what their support would be. And so I think this is a good move toward answering those
concerns of the community.

I'd just like to see that we get some credit for it. I'd like to see a little publication about the fact
that we are working with these groups. I mean, I don't know if we have to say that we've credited
them with five years instead of three years, but I would like very much for us to be vocal about
the fact that we have made this commitment to working with those people. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's a great idea from Director Williams. And of course, I'm
supporting this. You heard me last time. I won't go into all of that. But I will say that people have
been very worried about their Neighborhood Eco Passes and some of the Student Passes, and
things like that. They're breathing a sigh of relief and are very appreciative of this, and I
appreciate you working on it with the state and Heather and team.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh yes, thank you for the reminder, Chair Tisdale. Director Walker, any
questions or comments on this?
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): No, no comments.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, I just had my two cents. I guess I just still struggle with that idea that if
full increase wouldn't have been received, or recognized before the next planned increase. I just
still struggle with that a little bit. There's a leapfrogging effect.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, there is. And I mean, that was part of what the pass working
group struggled with when they made their initial recommendation of it being implemented
before there was the possibility of having another fare increase. So that's why the original
recommendation did come forward.
As was mentioned previously, that was tossed around a lot in the pass working group meetings.
And so that's why we had to think a lot about it before bringing it forward. But after we ran the
numbers, it wasn't as impactful financially as we thought it would be originally. And it actually
kept more people in the program, especially as it relates to people around that use DIA (Denver
International Airport) and other things, where their prices were going up substantially.
So we had two main groups, the people that are affected by using the University of Colorado A
Line, and also Boulder were the two main areas that were impacted and helped, and it looked
like we would actually retain more people longer in the program using the five-year scenario.
So that definitely was a concern of the pass working group and we had a lot of conversations
around it at the time. We did not run that scenario of three to five years. And once we did,
knowing where we ended up with the past working group recommendations, it wasn't as big of
an impact as most of us thought it would be.
KEN MIHALIK: And I know I was supposed to call you last week and ask you some more
questions. I didn't get around to it, but I'll be a no just to keep it off the unanimous consent so I
can get some more information.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK.
KEN MIHALIK: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just very briefly, I think that there was
a very elegant solution that our Chief Financial Officer included in the write up relative to this on
packet page 6. I initially wondered, why does it say, under 2023 Full Implementation, remainder
of increase? Because 20 plus 20 plus 20 plus 20 is 80, the last one has to be 20% to equal 100.
But then the double asterisk footnote does remind us that there could be a price increase. Not
necessarily, but could be a price increase in 2022, and therefore, it would be potentially more
than 20%. So I think that's how you capture. If there is a price increase, that last increase is 20%
plus whatever the price increase, fare increase, might be, as adopted at that time.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct, Mr. Chair. And also, to Director Broom's point, as we
mentioned, we modeled kind of a worst case scenario financially, in that there would be another
fare increase, and then we would see these numbers are based on a combined. So we could show
you what we thought the worst case scenario would be, from a financial standpoint.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, and with that, we will move to the vote, with Director Williams being the
mover and Director Guissinger being the second. Director Walker, could I get your vote?
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): Yes. I'll vote yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. With Director Walker, and again, we have 10 yeses. This does
pass. Three no's, no's being Director Lewis, Director Menten, and myself. Thank you. We'll
move on to the third and last recommended action tonight.
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to negotiate and execute contracts,
including contract amendments, to engage, or continue to engage, outside legal counsel to
represent RTD for an additional $4 million for a total amount not to exceed $12,500,000. This
recommendation satisfies the GM's core goals number 3, strong financial management, and the
task goal number 1, fiscal sustainability. Is there a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
SHELLEY COOK: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Broom and Director Cook. Rolf, I'll allow you to elaborate.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you, Chair Mahlik. This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. And with
me tonight is Assistant General Counsel Marisela Sandoval. Marisela, along with her Deputy
General Counsel, Jennifer Ross-Amato, are the two primary in-house counsel who are managing

and actively participating in litigation-related matters on FasTracks. And Marisela will talk
briefly about the recommended action and then we'll invite whatever answers we can give
tonight, or through other means.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Thank you, General Counsel Asphaug. As General Counsel
mentioned, my name is Marisela Sandoval. I'm Assistant General Counsel. I don't want to
reiterate everything that is before you, but we are asking for additional contract authority to
engage, or to continue to engage, outside representation to represent RTD on additional claims
by our contractors, as well as the continued litigation in the Eagle P3 Project.
I just want to point out that in May of 2018, when we last received contract authority, we had
mentioned that that was the best estimate at that time of what the cost of litigation will be. We
did point out that, if litigation continued and any additional claims arose, that we may need to
come before you again and request additional contract authority, which is why we're before you
here today. And as General Counsel mentioned, we are happy to answer any additional questions
that you may have.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. I see at least one. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. It is anathema to me to be involved in
litigation and to have to show your hole card in public. It's just something that I'm not used to in
my own practice over 45 years. But I recognize that as a public body, we are constrained to do
that.
But I will take the opportunity to express, speaking solely for myself, not for any other Director,
not for the Board not for RTD. But I would say that should we require more funds in order to
pursue and protect our rights, I would vote yes. I hope we don't have to get to that point, but I
want it understood, as long as we're going to be public, if it takes more I would vote yes. Thank
you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I will say, I'm having a hard time with this and I'm
curious of the long-term resolution and what our goals are long-term. And so you all could come
back in six months, or 12 months, or 24 months and ask for an additional amount. And that's
concerning for me because it's such a large amount and it seems to continuously be climbing.
And in terms of alternatives, what would maybe give me some peace is if we could have
something across the spectrum of alternatives. So often, when these come to us with
recommended actions, it's accept the recommended action or don't accept the recommended
action. And so is there a hybrid of something that you all could provide us, or are there
assurances that you can provide to the Board to let us know that we won't be expecting to have
this come before us again in the coming months?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Yes, I understand your concern, Director Lewis. Unfortunately, it's
hard to predict litigation at all times, but we do want to assure you that RTD Law remains

cognizant and conscious of the budget and to our constituents. And so we try to leverage all the
internal resources that we can and continue to monitor outside counsel to ensure that they're
using the budget wisely.
As far as alternatives, again, it's tough to give you an exact answer as to what will happen.
Litigation is ever evolving. We exchange information. And so there's always a hope that there
will be a settlement, and then that can be the alternative, perhaps, that you're looking for. And
we're continuously open to that and having those discussions.
For example, the litigation related to the Eagle matter. We will be exploring that, and also the,
court instructed us to explore that by the end of this year. So we are cognizant that it's somewhat
frustrating to keep coming back, but we need that flexibility to continue litigation, and as Chair
Tisdale mentioned, to protect RTD's interests to the best of our ability.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you for that. And it's not frustration, it's just a general concern about
what the long-term solution is. So thank you for that answer.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Catlin, you're next.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm not quite sure how to phrase this. It might seem indelicate, but having
worked with consultants and attorneys in the past, when you put a number out there, they do
their best to spend every penny of it and then go beyond that. And that is my concern. To Chair
Tisdale's point about he's not used to showing his cards, I just have some concern about that.
And what are the incentives to keep our outside legal counsel to perform in a cost-effective
manner? Just because there's that carrot out there that says $4 million and I just am concerned
that it will be spent, and then some.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Director Catlin, I could address this briefly. We are seeking additional
maximum, not to exceed contract authority. We are not seeking any particular contract. This
does not imply that we will spend all of this money, or spend this on any particular attorney, or
expert, or other things. And we have been watching very, very closely, as have the Board
members who have been reviewing the bills, have been watching as well. And we will continue
to do so.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might. I understand that. It's just that-[LAUGHS]
OK.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: And the Deputy General Counsel and I try to monitor as best we
can. And again, we're accountable to you all and our constituents, and so we're cognizant of that
and try to monitor and cut costs in any way we can, and also, like I mentioned, leverage the
resources internally, whatever we can do.

Our resources are limited. We're a smaller team and these are complex cases that require some
specialization, which is why we're at this juncture. But we are mindful and we are watching them
every step. And also, I just wanted to point out that this is not just attorneys fees, but all
encompassing of litigation costs.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I, too, have concerns with this process. It's just an
awful lot of money and it keeps accruing and it makes me very uncomfortable and it's very hard
to know how to not do it this way. And I was thinking, would it be possible, before one would
have a request like this, to have an executive session? I don't know if that's possible.
But about costs, because there's a cost benefit analysis that should be done, in addition to just,
well, here's the stuff. But what are we getting for it, and what is our potential liability? Again,
you've told us, of course, but we forget. And it keeps going up. And I'm, frankly, shocked by the
amount of money. I'm not in the litigation field. Perhaps I shouldn't be shocked by it.
But it's shocking. And it is public money and it feels like a soft process, like I don't really know
that much what's going on. I'd like to know more. I'd appreciate that. Thank you. Oops.
ROLF ASPHAUG: If you don't mind, this is Rolf Asphaug. I'd like to respond briefly again. We
will have further ongoing executive sessions to discuss the progress of the litigation. And there
are factors that we're uncomfortable talking about in open session, as to exactly why we need
these amounts, or why we think we may need these amounts.
But we'll definitely arrange for an executive session in the near future, and we'll continue to do
that as the litigation proceeds. So far, on the Eagle matter, we're still in the beginning, where
we're just beginning to start doing the disclosures and discovery. But we'll definitely have
additional discussion on that.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I'm just wondering, in hindsight, if it might not have been good to
have an executive session before we approved this. Because it's shocking to me to see this much
money going for legal fees. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. When I came to this Board of Directors, we
were involved in this situation and our settlement amount was roughly $12 million. So we don't
want to give it to DTP (Denver Transit Partners), we'd rather just give it to attorneys.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Director Williams, this is Rolf Asphaug. Excuse me, but I believe you're
incorrect on that, and I also think that that's inappropriate to discuss in open session. It's not a
matter of giving to attorneys, as opposed to it takes two parties willing to engage in settlement

discussions. And this underscores why I think we need to continue to have executive sessions to
give you the ongoing progress of the litigation. We will do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: It just appears, from where I sit, and again, I'm not an attorney and have not
been involved in litigation before, but I've been sitting in this chair for 2 and 1/2 years and we
continue to have this issue, and it continues to escalate, and I don't see any attempt on anybody's
part at settling anything. And so we just continue to litigate.
And it appears, to me, in the classic bad jokes of attorneys, that an attorney's job is to litigate,
and that that's what we keep doing. And I would love to see some kind of offer, counteroffer,
offer, counteroffer, something that would show me that there is a reason that we continue. I
understand that you need to have an executive session.
ROLF ASPHAUG: I'm unable to respond to that until we go into executive session, but I would
say that that we'll correct any impressions when we have an executive session. We get paid the
same regardless of whether we litigate or not here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Then we don't need to vote yes on this. We can just vote no and still get
paid.
ROLF ASPHAUG: No, we have to have outside counsel and outside experts and outside
assistance. We want to be conservative. We will come to you and let you know what we are
spending. We can't do that in open session. We will come to you and tell you what our plans are
with regard to specific contracts, but again, we can't do that in an open session.
KATE WILLIAMS: I understand that. I need to say what I feel that people are saying to me,
which is that this just goes on. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams. And yeah, just a reminder of the sensitive
nature, executive session, and we're not in it. Director Menten, you are next.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I just want to make sure, when I looked at the court case
several months ago, a few months ago, it was roughly a year out?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is that correct? July or June of next year. I actually put it on my calendar,
thinking it was this year, then realized it was next year.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: The trial? Yes. It's May of 2020.
NATALIE MENTEN: May of 2020. All right, thank you. I will be a no vote. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Catlin.

PETTY CATLIN: All right. Thank you for another opportunity to speak. I struggle with this. I
guess, in all fairness, when we were struggling with this last fall, both parties agreed that they
were going to put the legal fight on pause, or slow it down, in order to resolve the issue, in order
to get the FRA (Federal Railroad Administration) and PUC (Public Utilities Commission) on
board. And both parties came together to resolve the issue and not to litigate.
And so my view on that is that the expense burn, or whatever, for these was also curtailed. And I
applaud both parties for coming together to resolve the issue and not let the litigation get in the
way. So I think that was for the public good, and I really appreciated both sides doing that.
So even though I struggle with the costs, I do recognize that you have limited staff and that you
do require outside counsel. So to the extent that you can be very, very mindful and diligent about
monitoring these costs, I would appreciate it. I'm going to be a reluctant yes, but I just wanted to
make that case, that I really appreciated the efforts that were made to get the G Line and the A
Line issues resolved.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And Director Guissinger, if you will, can we just check in with
Director Walker. I didn't forget about him. Director Walker, any questions or comments on this
issue?
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): Yeah, just a comment. I don't have any questions on it.
Can you hear me OK?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): Is there an echo?
KEN MIHALIK: No.
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): OK. So I recognize the hesitation that some Board
members have expressed about the amount of money it costs. But there are-- hold on. I'm sorry, I
got to switch headsets. But there are costs associated with any project, just like the capital costs
or the overhead costs. This is one of those costs that goes along with a project.
And in lots of cases, we don't go to court over everything. Some are worth litigating, some are
not worth litigating. This is one of the ones that seems to need to go the extra mile, where we
need counsel to provide us the guidance and interpret the laws, etc. It's just one of those costs of
doing business.
And it might be the point where it [INAUDIBLE] go smoothly and [INAUDIBLE] reach. So I'll
be a yes vote I guess. I understand the apprehension [INAUDIBLE] much money, but it's just
part of the cost when we enter into this type of project [INAUDIBLE] So that's all that I have.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Dr. Guissinger, your turn.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm a former litigator and I fully appreciate how it seems like tons of
money being poured into something, but we didn't file this lawsuit. There's a lot of money at
stake. As Chair Tisdale said, we have rights we have to defend. There's no question that this has
to be handled by outside counsel. It's a huge contract matter and a huge dispute. And I think we
need to vote in favor of this, even if we don't love it.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: One last question, I'm sorry. On page packet 9-- yes-- under Alternatives,
it has, 1, "Accept the recommended action," 2, "Do not accept recommended action." in the last
sentence of the second alternative, it says if we don't do this, also potential delay in completion
of FasTracks projects. What would that mean?
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug. That would be, this is not just for Eagle, but this also
has to do for the North Metro RRP (Regional Rail Partners) situation, whereas the recommended
action explains there is still potential for claims and there could be delay if we are unable to
retain counsel to handle both of these together. We may well decide to use additional in-house
counsel for some of these matters, but this provides us with the flexibility we need.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so I'd look at that earlier, so now it's all clicking together. And
so now I'm even more concerned. So tying in the North Metro line, and we heard earlier from
Henry, everything looks hunky-dory.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug again. Everything does look hunky-dory, as far as the
construction is concerned. There are ongoing claims, as with any large construction project, and
those are being monitored. We settled the vast majority of those claims when we talked with you
all previously. But we did indicate to the Board back then that there were still claims that neither
side could be aware of at that point, and that is what we're reflecting in that part of the
recommended action.
NATALIE MENTEN: We were a little more open on the RRP matter. I'm hesitant to ask a
question because I'm not sure where it falls, but I know we had more public discussion regarding
the RRP, Regional Rail Partners. So my question, are there certain construction defects that we
know of with the North Metro line, or are these all related to RRP claims against us?
ROLF ASPHAUG: I think it's fair to say that, at this point, it's related to the potential of claims
against RTD. Like, delay claims, changed conditions.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I fully agree that we should have more information before we're
approving this amount. I would definitely vote no. Thank you very much for the additional
information.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. And with that, we will move to the vote. And again, as Director Broom as
the mover, Director Cook as the second.
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): Walker is yes.

KEN MIHALIK: Yes. Thank you for that reminder. And again, we are same as before. It passes
10 to 3. The three no's, Director Lewis, Director Menten, Director Williams. And we are on to
the handful of updates tonight. First one is the update from the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather. Jannette's joining me. We provided the update in
your packet. We really have no changes from the last update we did last fall. We do these
updates twice a year, but we'd be glad to take any questions that you might have.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Walker, I'll start with you, see if you have any questions or comments.
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): None, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Well, that was real fast.
[LAUGHS]
We will go on to the update on the underwriters, pool of underwriters.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather again. Brenden Morgan's going to join me. Every
few years, we need to update our underwriters pool, so we went out with an RFQ (Request for
Quote). The criteria and those scoring is listed in your packet, and also the firms that were
selected.
The Board does not approve this until which time we actually come forward and do some type of
deal, and then, as part of the resolution, we select members from this pool to be able to
participate in that particular financing, depending on what it is and when it is, because it can
depend on what kind of deal you're doing and who you select in being able to do that. So we just
presented this for information, but be glad to take any questions you may have.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sure no one is surprised that I'm speaking about Wells Fargo again
because they're terrible. So I am just quite surprised and disappointed that we are still continuing
to do business with Wells Fargo, who are oppressors, who are predators, who prey on lowincome communities, communities of color, those who are already experiencing the ills of this
world. And so I'm just going to keep raising it, and maybe before my term is over, something
will be different. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. I don't see anything else and so we will move on to April's
monthly financial report.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we did just receive, yesterday, the sales and use tax information. So
we have passed around an updated version of that from the version that was in your packet, and
we will get that in the corrected Board packet for you. We are slightly ahead, year over year to
date. Also April, this year versus last year and April versus budget.

However, overall sales and use tax were down slightly, which is to be expected based on the
information that was presented by the Leeds School of Business in the March forecasts. They are
estimating that 2019 we will be slightly less. We will make those adjustments in the amended
budget. But we're still tracking pretty high, year over year.
On the ridership, we have included commuter rail and bus. We are still working on light rail, and
we'll present to you next month a separate information item on where we are with ridership on
light rail. And then for fare revenue, I think that was mentioned earlier question. Came up about
that. We are tracking. Up year over year, and also month over our budget.
However, overall, we're tracking down slightly. That's usually to be expected as our rate of
increase on fare revenue goes up as the year goes on. So I think Jannette mentioned in her
presentation earlier, we should see that tick up quite a bit as we go month over month. If we
don't, we'll continue to look into what's causing that, if that is the case. But we are pretty much
where we thought we'd be right now, and I'd be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah. Let no one say that these numbers are stale. We always get them the last
minute, right when they're available.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, hot off the press yesterday morning.
KEN MIHALIK: Give it just a few seconds, in case people are still looking through this.
Director Walker, I don't know if you've got one of these or not before you.
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): I don't know. I haven't looked to see what was in the pile
that was on my desk.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Director Menten. Sorry, Director Walker, I cut you off.
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): I'm done.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thanks. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Can I get an update, please, on when we will be getting light rail
numbers, and also our performance, family performance subsidy report?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: The second one I don't have a date for you. I'll have to look into that. I
don't have it off the top of my head. On the first one, I just mentioned that we'll be presenting
that next month.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. You may have said that and I was trying to figure out, what is
different between the paper and the electronic? Did you say that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: The electronic one that was in your packet does not include sales and
use actuals. We had estimated figures. So that is the difference.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And then going back to the light rail numbers, did we figure out
what's going on?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We are working and we're investigating that and we'll make a
presentation to you next month on those.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. And with that, we are on to the pass program update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So just quickly, we are still moving forward. We're looking at,
right now, hoping for a July implementation. We are still working on that date with the state, and
also Denver Human Services, who will be doing the verification of income from those that are
not automatically eligible through the PEAK system.
We are on schedule with most things. We did run into a problem late last week, being Friday
night, that our vendor that we had gone out for an RFP (Request for Proposals) for producing the
cards, we did not get any bids. So we re-worked the scope of work over the weekend. We have
put that scope of work back out to bid. We're hoping to get that in time, but it's going to be very
close, which means we'll have to do some mitigation by producing those cards in-house for a
while, which will be a little slower than if we were producing them externally.
So that is one of the things on the critical path right now that we were not expecting until Friday,
when we received no bids, because we had been in contact with some vendors. So that aside,
usual ups and downs, but I think we're making significant progress towards that implementation
date. And again, I just can't thank the state, and now Denver Human Services, enough for
working with us so diligently to get this done as quickly as possible.
They keep telling us they've never implemented a program like this in six months, so we're very
thankful for the work they've been doing on it. But we're going to get close. We'll keep you
posted if we run into any other issues that would delay that implementation. But right now, even
if we have to mitigate a few things, we still are hoping to be on schedule for sometime in July.
I'd be glad to take any questions. And I've got Monika in the audience, too, who can answer more
specific questions if I cannot.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Walker, any questions on the pass program update?
JEFF WALKER (ON TELEPHONE): No, no questions.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Just wanted to check. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Quick one. Thank you, Chair. I know we talked about working with
community partners, the advocacy groups, to get the word out once the LiVE program was live.
[LAUGHS]

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Very good.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I was. I was working on it all weekend.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. We have a communication plan that's being reviewed internally. I
think I'm the only one that hasn't reviewed it. Monika's been sending out notices to do that.
That's included in that plan, as well as working specifically with the nonprofits, because you're
going to be relying heavily on them to get the word out, also, for us. So you should start seeing
stuff coming out. The balance is how soon versus-- yeah, so. Yeah. I saw the plan. It's in
definitely pretty good shape.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, thank you for those updates.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And we are on to other matters. Any other matters? I have one. Oh, sorry.
Director Catlin, I'll let you go first.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I don't know if this is appropriate or not. But right now, the National
American Waterworks Association Conference is being held at the Convention Center, and my
husband is doing his best to encourage everyone to take transit. And so I actually gave him a few
of my complementary passes to encourage those who were reluctant to try it to take it. And the
feedback he's gotten, personally, has been very positive. So one rider at a time, I guess is what
I'm going to say.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that update. I have one. If you relinquished your computer
earlier to get worked on, it is now ready, so don't leave without it. Seeing no other matters, we
will also meet again in July, July 9th. And we are adjourned. Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

