2021-01-21
Executive Committee - January
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --Executive Committee to order, if I could go ahead and take a
roll call. OK. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Treasurer Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Additionally, we have General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do we have the General Counsel on the phone, as well?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder. I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Miss McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. McKay?
JOHN MCKAY: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then I have a Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are there any other Board Members on the phone, please?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Davidson.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Tisdale is here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale, welcome.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Director Davidson.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Davison. Thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And Director Sloan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Oh, Director Sloan, welcome.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Hold on. Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. We're getting some very bad feedback. Are two of you on the
meeting on two separate devices in the same room?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am. I'm hanging up.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger, is the Chair online with you? Director
Guissinger?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Are you there? Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Can you see me?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. I'm so sorry. Since you guys didn't hear anything that
I said-- and it was quite poetic, I might add-- please accept our apologies for being a little tardy.
We were testifying this morning before the State Audit Committee. It is 11:41 AM on January
21. I'd like to call the Executive Committee Meeting to order. The first item on our agenda is the
acceptance of the January 26th Board Agenda. Do I have a movement?
SHELLEY COOK: So moved, Shelley Cook.

AUDIENCE: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I apologize. I'm looking for it right now. I'm kind of running
late.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek will second and I've also got a question about it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Go ahead, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Under the recommended action, the Jedi Action, I believe from the agenda that
I have-- the action language is from the unamended version. And I believe we amended it at our
meeting, at the committee meeting. And it doesn't reflect the amendment.
My second question has to do with new business, the Accountability Committee draft report.
And I am just wondering, did we not discuss that already or is this the first time it's coming up? I
just don't recall.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, on January 26th-- and Miss McManus, you can help me
with this, as well as First Vice Chair Guissinger. The co-chairs of the Accountability Committee
will be at the Board Meeting on January 26th to brief the Board on their interim report. Is that
correct?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's correct. There's a change. And I'm sorry [AUDIO OUT] agenda right
now. We were expecting-- Senator Winter and Representative Gray had said they would get us
the proposed legislation by yesterday so it could go in the packet. The legislation isn't ready.
They've said that they can get it to us by next Wednesday so it can go in the packet which could
be in the government Relations Committee meeting. So I don't know if we want to try to get the
co-chairs of the Accountability Committee to come. Is there going to be a special Board Meeting
for them to come, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I went over all the options with Jenifer Brandeberry yesterday, and
she was going to get back to me as to what she was thinking. What I proposed was that they
could bring it forward for review on the 2nd. And we can also discuss it next week when the two
co-chairs are speaking about it in the Board Meeting. Or we could have a special Board Meeting
and bring it forward foe-- once the Senate bill is complete we can bring it forward for the Board
to approve that bill moving forward. Depending on how we want to handle it, there are two
different things that could happen.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I guess my preference, is if the Accountability Committee co-chairs
can attend on February 2nd, would be to have the proposed bill language and then have them
attend then. It's all happened so quickly because we just learned a day or so ago that we wouldn't
get the legislation before-- in time for this coming week. So I can text Elise Jones and see if they
can come February 2nd. What do you think, Barbara, anyone else?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I think that a lot of the Board has not seen-- although we forwarded it
out, we haven't had any discussion with the Board regarding the mid-term report. I think it would

be prudent for us to keep it on the agenda and have that conversation at the Board meeting next
Tuesday. And then, if the Senate bill itself is going to be brought forward, we invite the co-chairs
back to speak to it. And at that point we decide do we want to move forward with the Board
approving or opposing moving it forward. We would have to add a special Board meeting to do
that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I'm fine with that. We can keep them on next week. It's possible we
could get the language before a Board meeting next week.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Right. I mean, that's my suggestion. But it's open for discussion for
everybody on this call.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any other thoughts?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. That's fine. That's fine with me that answers my question. I still have a
question about the recommended action item, thanks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. And I-- the version that I saw was corrected. I know that when
we make changes to the action as it moves forward, the software may not have saved those
changes. So we will double check that and make sure what is brought forward is correct.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Miss McManus, could you just for the rest of us read it so
that we know what it says, so that that could answer Secretary Buzek's question?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't have-- I don't have that in front of me. John, do you have it in
front of you?
JOHN: No. I need the check with Tai-Shrae. She was the one who attended that meeting. But I
believe-- well, I have to speak with her. But I was thinking that she was thinking that the changes
were not to the recommended action itself, but to the explanation of the recommended actions.
So let me get back with her.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well I have it on here. And let me see if this is correct. It is
recommended by the RTD Directors Lewis, Dishell and Bouquet, that the Board of Directors
adopt the plan detailed below relating to ongoing justice, equity, and diversity and inclusion
workshops. And then there's a print out. Is that correct?
VINCE BUZEK: But that's the prior language. They amended the actual recommended action
language to then contain three bullet points. So if we're going to approve the Board agenda, I
think it needs to be the accurate Board agenda. So if there's anyone that has that and can read it
in, we could make the adjustment that way.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.

MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder. I have the language if you'd like
me to read it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, please. Yes. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: So the updated language is, "It is recommended by our RTD Directors
Lewis, Dishell and Bouquet, that the Board of Directors one, conducts quarterly justice equity,
diversity, and inclusion JEDI workshops for at least two years facilitated by an outside
consultant or facilitator, at a cost not to exceed $50,000 over two years. Two, commits to
soliciting JEDI feedback from constituents during telephone town halls. And three, charges GM
CEO to create a comprehensive plan for JEDI work throughout the agency."
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Are you good then, Secretary?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, that's it. I just want to make sure the agenda that we approved to move
forward today has the accurate language. So that's good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other questions or comments on the agenda?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I just want to make sure that I understand what we're doing. This
has the Accountability Committee co-chairs coming in at the very end of the meeting. Is there
any procedure that we can move that up for them, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we-- we only-- we usually do action items first, and there's not that
many on the agenda. This meeting is going to go pretty quickly. I would prefer to keep RTD
business first, since it is a bit of an anomaly that we have outside speakers coming in for a Board
Meeting to begin with.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So what I think we would like to get it from this ultimately is the Board
approving our-- making a statement, which I hope is an approval, on the proposed legislation.
But this would be a discussion of the draft report. And then we would bring the proposed
legislation into the Government Relations Committee meeting the following week.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Because we don't have the Senate Bill language yet. And-LYNN GUISSINGER: I can also see if there is a way to get the Senate-- but we can ask Senator
Winter if there's a way to get the Senate Bill language by Monday or something. But we could
approve it in the committee I guess, huh?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we would have to add a special Board meeting in order to
actually bring it forward as an action item. And we would have to post that and have that
information to post at least 24 hours ahead. So we would need it by early to mid-afternoon on

Monday to get formal approval from the Board. And when I spoke to Jenifer yesterday she didn't
think that that could happen.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And we do have time. I mean, even if they-- in opening session, if
they were to do this as a first agenda item, that would not be until February 16th anyway. So we
do have time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. OK. We'll carry on with this as it is, then. We'll figure that out
when we get back on the time at some point.
BARBARA MCMANUS: All right. If things change, just let me know we'll figure it out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. All right.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, Buzek again. I apologize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I see.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. I see it.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead, Melanie. You have your hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No? OK, she took her hand down. Go ahead, Secretary.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. So I guess I'm just-- I'm newly confused over the new business item of
Accountability Committee draft report. Is that the Senate reps coming forward to talk to us for
the accountability or is that our Government Relations people just giving us an update?
LYNN GUISSINGER: The Accountability co-chairs Crystal Murillo and Elise Jones. And
they're planning to come and talk to the Board.
VINCE BUZEK: Cool. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're welcome.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. With that in mind, can we approve the agenda to move
forward for January 26th? I'm going to say is there anybody opposed to the agenda as-is?
Hearing none, the budge-- or the budget-- I'm sorry. The agenda for January 26th is approved
unanimously by the Executive Committee. Is there any new business to come before this
committee?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So there are things we need to talk about?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I was just-- a couple of things. You know, we've had several
meetings in the last week with Debra Johnson and Erik Davidson with the City Council's thing,
and they seem to be using Zoom Webinar. And I'm just wondering if we're making good
progress on a system for other than phone calls.
DEBRA JOHNSON: This is Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. Yes, there is a cross
section led by Michael Ford, working in conjunction with the information technology group as
well as communications in the Board Office I met with that team personally myself last
Thursday, and shared with them the importance of finding an immediate solution for the format
in which we're holding meetings. There's going to be an interim step and then an overarching
long-term solution.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, good. And I guess I have one other question that really may just be a
conversation. Debra, it's been so great to have you coming to the Accountability Committee
meetings. I think they're really starting to rely on you and on staff in a good way. But they're
really starting to amp up the speed of decision of things they're looking at in terms of ADA
issues and fares and passes and Board composition.
And I don't know if it's a conversation now or we need to put a placeholder to sort of see where
we are in terms of responding. I know your staff is working on a number of things. But some of
them are probably kind of Board issues, too. Is that a conversation we should just have later and
bring back to the Committee and the Board, Debra, or how should we do that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. Debra Johnson, General
Manager and CEO. Appreciate the inquiry. I have created a cross development team at the
Executive level, whereby we are looking at recommendations and actually a meeting as relates to
Monday, as our first meeting in relationship to that.
I do think that we could look at things from the staff level to ascertain what might be feasible and
share that with the Board collaboratively, so we can do the legwork relative to staff looking at
the operational aspect of some of the recommendations being put forth, and then share with you
all appropriately as it relates to our path forward for you all to opine. And we can create
alignment around that going forward. So that's the process that I would recommend for your
consideration. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We should talk and maybe Angie and I talk, too, about some of the
issues relating to the business, as well. But that sounds fine. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Cook or Second Vice Chair Cook, you're on.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And this is in addition to the other matters listed
on the agenda, correct?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, yeah. First of all, I wanted to acknowledge your work and our General
Manager's work and Troy and Lynn's work regarding the legislative audit this morning. I thought
that was a productive session. And I appreciated the work and responses that you all made.
In regard to the internal audit, we had pledged that the executive committee would take a look at
the IE standards and begin to draft recommended actions for the Board to consider to bring us
more in alignment with the audit recommendations. And I thought it might be good to start that,
and would wonder if we should, say Director Catlin and I, work with the staff to identify a
timeline for that just so we know we're on track for our deadline at the end of the year.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, absolutely.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Go ahead, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook, I was going to suggest something similar, and I had a long
conversation with General Manager CEO Debra Johnson about some of the steps she's taking. So
I think it would be helpful to include her in those discussions, as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Super. Yeah. I do think it was very, very clear by the Audit
Committee. They're really going to keep their finger on the pulse of what we do as an agency,
and are really going to be looking at it instead of five years for the next audit maybe two to two
and 1/2 years. And their big issue was making sure that we implement all the recommendations
that have been brought forward by the state audit staff.
So it was quite a robust discussion. I thought it went very well. And General Manager, do you
want to add anything to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Appreciate the opportunity to
offer some information to all those assembled. Recognizing that we do have an opportunity to
create a baseline and assess what it is that we're not doing, per se, on Tuesday I transmitted a
letter to the American Public Transportation Association whereby I requested a peer review as it
relates to the auditing function. So, waiting to hear back from APTA as it relates to the request
that we put forward to have that peer review potentially be conducted as a point of reference for
us the week of February 8th. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, any other Board members want to bring
anything up under Other Matters?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First of all, congratulations to all the
staff, General Manager and CEO Johnson, and to you for the Audit Committee discussion today
in the legislature. It was obviously challenging. And obviously there's a lot of negative energy
that still exists there. And I can't help but think that some of that is still due to some
misunderstandings and some lack of information.
One thing that was concerning to me-- the Audit Committee was ultimately, but it took a long
while to get there, presented with information regarding the retention problem. But even after
that, they still did not appear to understand that the high turnover of operators that we
experienced was due to new operators that we had just hired discovering that they alone were hit
with mandating and split shifts due to the seniority system imposed by the union. And this was
discovered and known by us in the exit interviews with those operators.
And those interviews, those exit interviews, were conducted. So I was stunned to hear them say
that we have never done exit interviews. I think Michael Ford can testify to that because he, in a
number of Board Meetings, commented about those exit interviews and pointed out that the big
problem we had was new operators getting hired saying, "Yes, I can do split shifts. I can deal
with mandating, that's fine," then getting on the job and saying, "Wait a minute. I can't deal with
these split shifts and I can't deal with the mandating," and then quitting.
So I was distressed that the auditors didn't do a better job, perhaps, of highlighting that. And I
was distressed that even after it was explained at some length by one of the auditors, that they
just didn't seem to understand it and had this sense that we never did exit interviews. And that's
just flat wrong. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. You know, it was very interesting
to me that even though they had read the audit report that their questions-- they don't understand
RTD. I want to thank Michael Ford for being there and Doug McLeod. They did a great job, and
our General Manager, explaining all of these components to them. I
Thought that we did a pretty good job explaining to them about the mandate and the seniority
issue and the union component to this, in addition to the pay differentiation, and that some
people did want to mandate for better pay and others did not. And so I think that there was some
confusion about that. But I kind of felt like they caught it. What do you think, Director
Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I don't know about the exit interviews. I wasn't clear that we were
doing those.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: But other than that, I thought that they [AUDIO OUT].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think I have the same reaction that Director Tisdale did, that it implied that
we never did them. I think that we rarely did them. Excuse me. But I think the other thing that I
took note of was the sample size was so small.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It was. The
PEGGY CATLIN: Number of operators that they spoke with was very small.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, the ones that first responded. And, in fact, it could have been those
people who just wanted to complain.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's kind of what it felt like me. And they even kind of alluded
to that fact, that that might have been what was happening.
PEGGY CATLIN: That probably was not a statistically valid sample. That said, I think we can-LYNN GUISSINGER: We have the problem of people quitting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right and so we do need to work on a number of recommendations that they
have. But I just think that their criticism was a little harsh.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Manager, do you want to add anything to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I would concur that the sample size
basically made the information that they obtained through those interviews appear not to be
reflective of the overarching population. If anything, I do understand that there were exit
interviews. There were just not consistency with said interviews. And in utilizing a questionnaire
to garner information about the reason people were attriting, they were just very simple
questions.
So in sum I would say that as relates to what we're doing, I do believe that we have an
opportunity to enhance that and make it more robust. But, from my perspective, I do think
considering the findings of the recommendations put forth, that the Legislative Audit Committee
asked some very intriguing questions. And I do think, as the leader of this organization, that we
have work to do, which I believe to be straightforward. And I am optimistic that we will shore
these efforts going forward. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. You know, the thing that I would add, Director
Tisdale, is I was writing down the questions by the representatives. It was representative Larson
who was asking specifically about exit interviews on who left and why they left. So they were
looking for more specific numbers. And this was a small sampling, and I think that's why that
question kept coming up.
I concur with the General Manager. We have a lot of work to do. And, as you know, when we
got to the audit component of the audit, it was very clear that our work is really very much cut
out for us to get a lot of stuff done and in a pretty fast period of time. And because we put in our
response that we would have it done by December 2021, that was concerning to them that we
were going to put it off until the very end, which is not true.
We will start working-- and, in fact, we've already started working on the recommendations. And
I think that's really important to say for the record, including submitting an RFP for peer review.
Correct, General Manager, for the audit department?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, that is correct. And if I can explain-- as it relates to the December 31st
date, considering that there is a myriad of things that we have to do, we wanted to ensure that we
are working in tandem with our partners at APTA. If we look for best practices of transit
agencies, some of those items are out of our control in relationship to a response date, being able
to ascertain the information then leveraging best practices and then implementation. So we have
already started working on a myriad of these-- a myriad of these things. And I am confident we
will have implementation prior to the December 31st date.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you . I'd like to talk a little bit about the committee
assignments for 2021. I put together a preliminary list. I've contacted every Board member. I
need to make some tweaks, and so I will be working with Miss McManus this week to get it
finalized and then sent out. So I just wanted to let you know that we're on the other side of this.
I'm really pleased that Board members have taken such an interest in a variety of topics. And I
have to tell you, I'm really excited about the level of talent that there is on this RTD Board of
Directors. I think it's going to be a great year.
One of the things that I did do was I made senior Board Members Chairs and new Board
Members Vice Chairs so that they could be mentored as we move forward. And also
understanding that the committee structure may change mid-year based on the Committee
Structure Ad Hoc Committee, so we still have a lot of work to do. But I want to get these
committee assignments out as soon as possible. So I just wanted to give you an update on that.
And with that-VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Thanks for saying that. I think there's a perception out there and maybe
even a perception on the Governance Subcommittee of the Accountability Committee that RTD

Directors kind of just get elected by whim. They're dumb ballot races, no one cares, and they just
get on the Board.
And if they take a look at the bios of every member of this Board of Directors, I think it's pretty
darn impressive. So that's all I have to say. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And thank you for saying that. Because I do think that they
forget about that component. But this is a pretty talented group of folks that is going to be
moving this agency forward. And I think it's going to be an exciting year for all of us. So thank
you for that. General Manager, is there anything you'd like to discuss?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Madam Chair. We're at that point under Other Matters. Screen D, it
basically has agendas here, the discussion of a retreat format going forward. So, if I may, I
wanted to take the opportunity to briefly share the intent of what we're calling a retreat. Because
keeping in mind what we just heard at the Audit Committee at the state level, what I am
endeavoring to do, which I've shared with several Board members in conversations but wanted to
ensure that I'm sharing it in a holistic fashion, is our strategic plan development, keeping in mind
that it's my understanding the RTD Board has in the past convened and had a retreat.
What I am proposing that we do is have an aspect of a strategic plan development, which will
entail a retreat. But there is work that needs to be done on the front end of that. And so you all
have heard me talk specifically about the need for us to achieve organizational success, meaning
that we collectively need to know how we're going to define success, achieve alignment you
know amongst the senior leadership team who, under my leadership, basically has to do the dayto-day business.
But then there are all who are working in tandem to ensure that come to fruition. So we
collectively have to create alignment around success outcomes to fins the measurement of
success and assure the organization have the right people in the right place to deliver on said
outcomes. So, with that as a backdrop, I wanted to ensure that you knew that I have been
working with the Board Office.
Because what I'm trying to do is bridge two separate facets-- what I want to do with the Senior
Leadership Team in conjunction with the Board. And that is retain a management consultant that
has expertise around providing strategic planning, workshop, and retreat facilitation. And what
we're trying to do here-- the outcome of the process ultimately will be for us to have a clear
vision of success in reference to what is our North Star, and how will it be delivered, and who
will be responsible for achieving organizational outcomes.
Case in point, of the Board process it says, "The General Manager goals for x." Well, let's be
honest. Those aren't this current General Manager's goals, so what are we collectively trying to
work towards as an organization, recognizing the comments we got this morning? So at the
Audit Committee when it says shouldn't we be doing things around what our organizational
mission is-- and so with that, looking at it through a multipronged approach in which some of
these things would happen concurrently, we want to let a solicitation, whereby people would
present proposals to us so we can identify a strategic matter consultant in the sense that first we

would need them to understand context for the strategic work to be undertaking, and that would
be for them to conduct a scan of relevant studies, evaluations, case in point utilizing the most
recently publicized audit report, for instance, any other information we have potentially, the
accountability report, things of the like.
And, from that, summarize the key themes and insights. What would happen is that there would
be concurrent efforts happening with the senior leadership team. There would be stakeholder
engagement with the Board. And the objective is to ensure a collaborative environment in
alignment with the Board of Directors in preparation for potential realignment and cultural
change. And that's done through that interactive engagement.
So it's to obtain the views on RTD's mission, vision, and success outcomes before we're all in a
room. Because basically doing this preliminarily prior to us getting together, there will be things
in which we could create alignment around, and then basically align success around those
outcomes. So having us align and finalize definition of what that is, get input from stakeholders
as well, what they perceive, what we perceive their opinions and attitudes to be, and then
basically coming together where there is some agreement on the definitions of said outcomes.
We would come together and have discussions around that.
Because I see this as a-- we have to have strategies and tactics, like how will RTD deliver
success. And the tactics that we would work on, are they activity services and programs that
make success possible? And that would basically rest with staff to carry those things out. And in
the course of doing that, when you define what the tactics are, it would help us prioritize on a
budget and a resource allocation vantage point to ensure universal alignment around the
objective of filling the goals.
So then that would help us creating performance scorecards, as well. We need to ensure that
we're creating an opportunity here for ownership. And, as we go forward, we could utilize those
working forward whereby we integrate tactics, so we have quarterly performance scorecards
based upon the key elements that we should be working towards as an organization, and then
have a Board retreat and a strategic planning session whereby we ensure that there is alignment
around the mission, the vision, the success outcomes, create that performance scorecard that will
result in a strategic plan. And that will be the premise behind that retreat that we would have.
And then, in turn with me leading the organization, it's paramount that we have this foundation
created because you all need to assess my performance. And by having something concrete that's
been created through alignment with the Board as well as those that I am leading, i.e. members
of the Leadership Team, we can develop an appraisal program as we go forward, and more so as
well that will enable that the appraisal is done in such a way where there's a narrative, there's a
script, and there's rubrics and definitions necessary for an informed appraisal by the Board. So I
see it as being a multipronged process that could happen in the course of a couple of months.
And so that's how it would differ from what you all have done in the past
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you General Manager. Just a couple of questions-- so in
terms of the timeline in what you're thinking, traditionally we've done the Board retreat in

February and then the Board SLT in March. And we're thinking now that's going to be pushed
out further, correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: That is correct, Madam Chair, because there needs to be groundwork done
once we select a consultant. But there would still be engagement potentially that could occur in
March, i.e. engaging with Board members, engaging with stakeholders to ascertain what themes
are prevalent after they were able do a scan of the varying documents to create an understanding
of our current culture.
And I think Director Tisdale had pointed something out in the sense that there's still confusion
around what it is that we do on a misunderstanding. And I really believe by refocusing on what
our ultimate mission is and what that North Star is, which is our vision that we're aspiring to be
futuristically, would help us with all of this as we go forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Agreed. Just a couple of other things-- as we're looking at this, it
brings to mind the Accountability Committee recommendations. And will we be fitting those
components in as well as the audit recommendations into this strategic plan, so that as we move
forward it's a comprehensive plan of action that has included key stakeholders as well?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Very good question. Thank you, Madam Chair. So, yes, when I was talking
about the delivery, yes. Using the Accountability Committee, I personally think it would be
advantageous to have those individuals interviewed as part of the stakeholder engagement so we
really know what we're working towards. So thank you very much for that question. I do have
that outline. I just didn't touch upon it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Debra, I really like your outline of the process.
And I think that we're going to develop a strong strategic plan out of this. But you made a
comment that at that point when we realize alignment and have a plan moving forward, which
might be maybe in the April frame or after, that then we could mutually agree upon the metrics
and measures by which we evaluate you.
Our contract with you says that we will have that done in 120 days after your November-- after
you started. This would push that out a little bit. So I'm OK with-- I'm perfectly OK with doing
that, but I just want to be clear that we would have-- maybe we could have something interim to
meet the 120-day marker or maybe we could just amend the contract. I don't know. What are
your thoughts?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. And I'm amenable to modifying
that via an amendment. Because I want to ensure that there are metrics in place that address the
needs of the organization as opposed to something anecdotal that will be hard to assess my
performance on. So I'd rather do it right instead of being hamstrung by a date in a contract,
because I really firmly believe as I go through my assessment I have my themes that are aligned.
And I and something tells me that they'll be recurring as relates to what we do collectively. So I
am very amenable to that.

PEGGY CATLIN: I think that makes sense. General Counsel Melanie Snyder, is that something
that we can work on, an amendment just over cover?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Absolutely we can do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Director Rosenthal-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And perhaps this relates to a prior agenda item
or maybe it's better in Committee or better in the General Manager's report or maybe under New
Matters. So, for example, I'd just like for a future meeting perhaps we could have a presentation
just looking at a news article on the 16th Street Mall renovation. I've been given a contract for
three years.
Obviously, there's always been, over the past number of years, some repairs on that. How does
that affect RTD and our operations? So I guess to have a report on that, an update.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. We had a presentation on the 16th Street Mall. And so
much has changed since COVID it might not be a bad idea to get a refresher on what is
happening there. Because I know there's been a lot of discussion at City Council about the 16th
Street Mall. That would go into Operations, I believe, so I could move that forward and ask
Director Williams to put that on the agenda with the General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: A point of clarification, Madam Chair. That's a capitol project. We do have
a Capitol Project Committee. I know it's term fasttracked, but for all intents and purposes that
wouldn't be an operating project.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Dually noted, my apologies. But we'll make sure it gets into the
correct committee, Treasurer Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And then, on another matter, there's some media reports
recently about the B Line and some discussion on that. Perhaps we can get an update on that as
well, depending on should that be through a committee, should that be through General
Manager's report or however the proper avenue for an update on that to the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, Madam Chair. One quick comment on the retreat information and
the way forward that Debra Johnson brought up. I just wanted to underscore something that
Director Guissinger had mentioned early. I mean, I think one focus of what we're hoping to do is
build up the capability, the capacity to respond to recommendations and other initiatives that we
might undertake. And part of that was our effort to revamp our committees.

So I'm hoping to work with you in regard to your efforts to bring that forward to us, so that
Director Tisdale and I, if we're continuing our committee, can make sure that we're working in
partnership with you as we revamp our committee structure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And, Second Vice Chair, could you repeat that last part because
you broke up and I just want to make sure I have it down.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. Just hoping to bring to the fore Debra Johnson's work on our retreat
and the mission and vision and so forth, that we are actively considering the work that we're
undertaking with regard to our committee structure, and then also taking into account the need to
be responsive or build in the ability to respond in a timely way to the Accountability Committee
recommendations and other initiatives that we might decide to move forward on. So just wanting
to make that an overt part of what we're looking at for the process that she outlined.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, ma'am.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. General Manager, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Second Vice Chair Cook, yes, thank you so much for broaching that. As
we talk about success outcomes in recognizing that I did have the opportunity to speak with you
and Director Tisdale, I think this is a prime opportunity so we basically can create committees as
relates to our core business considering that we would create alignment. So, yes, most definitely
look forward to working in partnership with you all.
DOUG TISDALE: Great. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Secretary Buzek, I see your hand up.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I also had a couple of comments on the Board
retreat topic, as well. And I'm wondering-- I'd hate to ask our General Manager. But if there's any
chance, General Manager, you could put together just a real brief one-page Executive Summary
bullet point document that kind of outlines what you just told us, what your thinking is on how
the retreat and the goal setting process will work as we move forward, that would be helpful to
me.
And I've been looking at a lot of the old stuff that we've done. And the last one I have that really
came to conclusion was from 2019. 2020 was an odd year. Because I think shortly after our
retreat we went into lockdown and in panic mode.
But when I look at this 2019 stuff, you know, I often felt we were sometimes acting more like a
local Chamber of Commerce than a high performance elected Board of Directors in the way we

went about this. So I'm really eager to get into a new process that really streamlines what we do
and comes up with a really good product in the end. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. I don't see any one in the queue, but I would
like to follow up on a couple of things. First of all, General Counsel, if you could talk a little bit
about the financial disclosure forms that have been requested by Nate Minor of the RTD Board
of Directors.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Yes, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. Yes.
So we did have some open records requests for Director Conflict of Interest and Financial
Disclosure forms. As you probably are familiar, RTD's code of ethics talks about how any
individual-- any employee who's responsible for procurements or engaged in the award or
administration of contracts must complete and submit this form on an annual basis.
And so those forms by our code of ethics have always been treated as confidential personnel
records. So those were not disclosed, consistent with our prior practice. Of course, any individual
employee can decide-- they are the person of interest under the statutory definition of personnel
records. Any individual employee could, of course, decide that they want to disclose their
personnel files or records that may be in their file.
In this case, we did go to each of the directors. And each of the 15 directors have authorized the
disclosure of those forms. So those will be-- if they haven't already been produced, those are
going to be produced today.
One other point of clarification, though-- I understand that there may be some misunderstanding
about exactly what these disclosures include. And on our Colorado statutes there are some very
specific and pretty extensive financial disclosures that are required for certain elected officials.
And those are listed in the statute. And those require things like disclosure of sources of income
and interest in real property, as examples.
But the RTD Board of Directors is not included in that list that includes, for example, judges and
elected district attorneys. RTDs and the directors are in a different portion of the statute, of
course, subject to Fair Campaign Practices Act disclosures, but not to these financial disclosures.
So those documents are not collected by RTD as an entity. So they weren't also withheld. The
only thing that was held was this Annual Disclosure form. So those will be produced.
I will say that I think there's an opportunity, if the directors want to take a look at the code of
ethics that was adopted in February of 2018, and if the Board wants to consider disclosing or
treating the records as public records for the elected Board of Directors separately and apart from
how other employees-- other disclosure requirements for regular employees. You know, that's
certainly something that could be done. But right now that is what our Code of Ethics does
require.
I will also note that we-- I've been working with staff behind the scenes to collect our 2021
disclosure forms. We had some glitches. There was an electronic form that we had been using.
But given some of the challenges with remote access to that system, we're going to just go back

to the old paper-- well, a PDF, a fillable PDF form. We're going to go back in time and revert to
that. So we'll get that circulated, and the 2021 disclosures will be updated soon.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thanks, Madam Chair. And I would support the suggested action that
Melanie outlined of bringing forward the Code of Ethics with a modification for the elected
officials disclosures to be made public. I don't know if other people would agree to that, but I
think that's a good thought.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'm getting agree from the Secretary and from First Vice
Chair and myself. And I'm not seeing anyone else. But, yeah, General Counsel, if you could
work on that I think that would be great.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. Yes, Madam Chair. I can work on some proposed amendments for
the Board's consideration.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. General Manager, I just had one last thing.
And it was could you-- I think I'm muted. Oh, no-- if you could do an update on the funding that
RTD will be receiving.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I am in the process of actually
drafting a memorandum to all of you as relates to the CRRSAA funding, which is the second
round of stimulus money. And just for clarification since I am using words of which you may not
be familiar, when I-- I'm sorry. I just had a-- I just had a lapse in reference to what I was saying.
The Corona Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act. So at this juncture, as it
stands, recognizing the statute language specifically, we are in the process of working to bring
our front line employees back. The notifications went out on Friday, last Friday, pursuant to the
contract.
At this point in time, we have had the front line rail operators that were released-- they have
agreed to return to work. One mechanic that was released found another opportunity. We are in
the process of bringing back the front line bus operators. Quite naturally, with them being off,
there's a process in which they need to go through in reference to USDOT guidelines with drug
and alcohol testing.
I am getting updates daily as relates to the status. We are optimistic that we should have people
back in the seat beginning of early next week. As relates to the other facets, what I am working
on collectively is ensuring that those individuals on the salary side of the House, the nonrepresented employees who have carried a large financial burden as relates to taking furlough
days in 2020, they took nine, and in 2021 scheduled to take six.
Recognizing that these CRRSAA funds specifically speak to furloughs, I am going to utilize
those funds for non-reps, to make them whole in that vein, as well. Going forward I want you all
to be apprised that I will speak in greater detail about this during the General Manager CEO

report on January 26th. As you can imagine, this information is quickly evolving. And I
endeavor to agendize a special finance committee meeting on February 2nd, whereby I will give
you more specifics and actually have the allocation-- not the allocations-- the expenditure line
items as relates to what it is that I'm speaking here.
I do have a meeting this afternoon. I'm having, once again, with all employees-- I made a
commitment to them last week, when we met last Monday when we heard about the urbanized
tables being readily available from FTA, whereby we had our apportionments disclosed to us. I
in turn followed up on Thursday, last Thursday. So today it's my intention to let them know what
our path forward is and relationship to looking at the reduction in force and minimizing the
impact of the-- minimize the impact to their personal compensation going forward.
And more so as we look to work on this, quite naturally, these moneys that have been
appropriated are for transit operations, recognizing we're bringing people back to provide
service. We are looking at tweaking some minor elements as it relates to our service delivery
model. We are working with the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 10-001 in which to do that.
There are some things that are still in the works and recognizing that we're in this forum. I don't
want to speak outside of school in relation to that right now. That's why I endeavor to have a
meeting scheduled whereby I can give you specifics as we work those out. Because I'm waiting
to hear back as we go forward to ensure that we're leveraging more service on certain routes and
doing some minor tweaks as it relates to the schedule. So we are putting people to work to lessen
the burden on our transportation network.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any comments from Board members? OK.
Seeing none Miss McManus, do you have anything for us?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just wanted to mention the last item on Other Matters, the Board
Operating Guidelines. So it's in the bylaws that we review and approve this in the first quarter of
every year. We normally just bring it-- we normally just bring it forward. However, because we
have new directors, I thought it was important to have a short discussion in Executive Committee
that there are some housekeeping items that we will need to change or add to based on our
current meeting scenario with COVID-19, and that if any other directors have any thoughts or
comments, we'll be discussing that in Executive Committee again in February, and then bringing
it forward for Board approval in the March cycle.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Comments? Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Could you forward to us a copy of the current Board Operating
Guidelines when you have a chance?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. That would be great. Anything else from any
other Board member?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Director Rosenthal here-- quick question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So in terms of the COVID vaccine-- so I just got mine yesterday because
I'm a teacher at a correctional facility. And so I guess I was 1B. Oh, my arm hurts. But other than
that, it's fine. So my question is whether Board members are considered with the legislature and
reporters and folks like that, under 1B, or whether they're down the line or just they're in another
category like they're over 65 or different health issues. Because that might also go into the issue
of the Board procedure and when we meet again individually. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, that's the million question. I do know that if you go on
Kaiser and you sign up to be on the list there is a dropdown, if you're a legislator, to mark. I'm
thinking then we'll go up a little bit further. But I have not heard that the RTD Board of Directors
will have that. General Manager Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. As we work in conjunction with
the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment considering that we are 1B, within
that segment we have a tiered approach. Quite naturally the first are front line operators.
Secondly are front line supervisors. Then we qualify individuals that are working in our facilities
and administration.
And considering that I am-- Mike Meter has been working at the staff level with individuals. I, in
turn, am having a meeting with the Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Public
Health and the Environment. And we're going to have conversations around that. So I can
explore that.
As we all know, it's geared toward those that are interacting with the public. You all have
constituencies, so I can explore that and see what the sentiment is around that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. I do know the state legislature are getting their
inoculations right away because of their work in the community. So that's a good question,
Treasurer Rosenthal, that we will get back to you on.
OK. Anything else to come before the Executive Committee? OK. Hearing none, it is 12:41, I'd
like to adjourn this meeting. Do I have a movement?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved, Director Rosenthal.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzak, second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I got three people. Anyone opposed? Hearing none, we are
adjourned. It is 12:41. Have a great afternoon, everybody. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair, General Manager and everybody.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE:
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you all.

