Jul 17 2018 0530 PM Board of Directors Board Meeting
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
NATALIE MENTEN: If everybody could take their seat, please, we're ready to start our
meeting. Board members, get logged in if you're not already.
Hello, everyone. I now call to order the Tuesday, July 17, 2018 RTD Board meeting. The record
will reflect that we are convened as of 5:30 PM, Mountain Standard Time. I respectfully request
everyone to please silence their phones. I would note for the sake of the record and for the
benefit of the public, this meeting is being video and audio recorded.
Will everyone please rise and join us-- with us in saying the Pledge of Allegiance, and tonight,
we are joined by Jamison Rhodes, a student from District O and daughter of our TV special
event coordinator, Jillian Knapp-Rhodes. Miss Jamison Rhodes, please proceed when you're
ready.
JAMISON RHODES: I pledge of allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to
the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for
all.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
Good job. Thank you very much. Thanks to both Jamison and Jillian for assisting us with that
part of our meeting. All right, we'll start off with our roll call. Ms. McManus, would you please
call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Director Anderson?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Archuleta?
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Deadwyler? Director Folska?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Hoy? Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sisk?
CHUCK SISK: Good evening. I'm present, thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Solano?
PAUL SOLANO: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm also present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale? 12 present, three absent.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, Ms. McManus. So we'll start off with our safety briefing. At
RTD, safety is our core value. I would like to begin this meeting with the short safety briefing.
If we have a medical emergency and 911 needs to be called, I'll ask that our RTD General
Counsel to make that phone telephone call. Any medically-trained individuals in the room are
respectfully requested to assist if needed. An automatic emergency defibrillator is in a glass case
located just outside this room on the wall to the right.
In the event that we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency, please calmly
exit out the door you came in at the back of the room. Go up the stairs to the first floor, around
the security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to
direct you to a safe meet-up area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an
evacuation will be assisted by our TV staff as necessary.

And on a related safety note, please understand, that while RTD takes every precaution to ensure
the security of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the
general public to be aware of and alert to any suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and
trains and around stations, stops, and platforms.
As such, we encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch app,
which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with
RTD transit security personnel on a real-time basis in the event of an emergency situation. The
Transit Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple App Store.
Thank you for joining us this evening. We'll start off with-- normally we would have retiree
awards, but we have no retirees in the month of July. And then we'll move to public
participation. This is our public dissipation period, which is open to anyone who wants to speak.
As is our custom, we allow any of our elected officials present to speak first so they can get back
to their own meetings and attend to business.
We at this time do not have any one signed up to speak, so I will just ask in the audience if there
is anyone who would like to take advantage of their three minutes to speak before the Board.
Yes? Please. Come forward and would you please give us your name-- yes, correct. Right to that
podium right there. Get close to that microphone so we can hear you, and please give us your
name. If it's a difficult name, could you spell it for us please? And also give us your address.
DAVID DVORAK: We're good to go?
It sounds like it.
DAVID DVORAK: Hi. I'm David Dvorak. I'm a parishioner, Immaculate Conception Church in
Lafayette and part of their social justice ministry. I also am a volunteer for the Together
Colorado organization, a multi-faith, multi-racial, 220-member organization devoted to social
justice issues.
I wanted to-- this is my first time here, so I have used the frequent flyer bus when it used to run
between superior and directly to the airport-- I actually enjoyed that ride, and that the ride is no
longer available, and I know you have to go to downtown and-- that's not as attractive to me at
this time. But I have used RTD.
I want to compliment the Board. I attended the-- I mean, I phoned in for the session on Friday
night. I went to the first open house at Boulder last night-- I was impressed. The RTD Board has
gone to great lengths to make sure the public is fully informed of what is going on at this time. I
cannot compliment you enough on the efforts you have put forth.
And there's many other things you're doing as well, but I just wanted to say, I was very
impressed last night, I had a chance to speak to two Board members, I missed one-- just missed
catching her, and so I'm very glad.

I just wanted to speak to the couple of points-- I'm going to make sure I stay within the three
minutes. I'm sure you have a timekeeper, somebody's going to wave at me.
NATALIE MENTEN: Right up there on that board there.
DAVID DVORAK: And so I'm speaking in the support of the lower income pass and the
increased age group passes for students. It only makes sense that we've been supporting RTD for
many years, and now it's time for RTD to invest in its loyal riders. I know you have a budget and
I know fiscal responsibility is very important. I believe in that myself. Of course, there's a lot of
ways you can balance the budget, we all know that. And I'm not going to get into all those kind
of details.
But I think it's-- the fare increases and what you're asking here-- where you've married it to the
changes in the low income and increased age group are not realistic. That's what accountants do
and that's what we do, of course, to justify this-- whatever our position is, but there are so many
other things that could probably be done.
Increased ridership will always pay off in the long run. Yes, it may increase costs upfront, but in
the long run, those people that ride that are students now, guess what? They're probably going to
be riding as adults.
And so increased ridership in many of these cases, there may be some increased expense, but
when you have a light rail running, it's running. It's not going to change the expense if we create
the ridership. And the same thing with buses-- they may not be totally full.
So I thank you for this opportunity. Again, congratulations on the great pieces of information
you're giving the public.
NATALIE MENTEN: Mr. Dvorak, thank you. And could you please give us a name-- the
spelling of your last name? I took a guess, but you tell me. What do you got? What's the spelling
of your last name?
DAVID DVORAK: I wear hearing aids and sometimes a big-- I don't always catch. Natalie, did
you-- I'm sorry, you were asking me a question?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. What is the spelling of your last name?
DAVID DVORAK: Oh. Well, Dvorak, of course! Anybody that's musically inclined know
Antonin Dvorak. So that's why-- I'm being catty, of course. But D as in David, V as in victory,
O-R-A-K. You can see, I practice that a lot. And
NATALIE MENTEN: Your address please? Your address please?
DAVID DVORAK: It is 2340 Rimrock-- one word-- Rimrock Circle, Lafayette.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you very much.

DAVID DVORAK: Any other questions?
NATALIE MENTEN: No. You're good to go.
DAVID DVORAK: We're all set?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
Thank you very much.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. All right, do we have anybody else in the audience who
would like to speak? Yes, ma'am? Please come forward. And if you could start off with your
name and spell that for us, and then address please.
ADRIENNE DESHAIES: Hi. Thank you. Thank you for giving me time to speak. My name is
Adrienne-- A-D-R-I-E-N-N-E. Deshaies-- D-E-S-H-A-I-E-S. Another easy last name.
[LAUGHS] And my address, you said?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, please.
ADRIENNE DESHAIES: It is 7893 Allison Way, Apartment 103. That's Arvada, Colorado,
80005.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. Is there a way that we could restart the clock so she has her three
minutes please? And you can go ahead, ma'am. Thank you.
ADRIENNE DESHAIES: Thank you to all the Board members for this chance to speak. I'm here
as a member of the Organization Together Colorado, as I'm sure Mr. Dvorak explained. I'm also
a former teacher for Denver Public Schools (DPS). And I'm also here as myself, so I would just
like to voice my support for the past recommendations put forth by the working group.
As a former teacher for DPS, I saw firsthand how difficult it was for a lot of families to get their
students to school, how expensive that can be, and I just think it makes-- I think we have a moral
obligation to ensure that children in our city-- that all children no matter their socioeconomic
status are able to have access to an equitable education, and part of that is providing the
transportation necessary for them to be able to get to school. And related to that is enabling their
families to be able to get them to school and to get to work.
So I think adopting all three of the recommendations for youth pass-- or the youth pass, the
discount for youth and the low income pass, it's very important to adopt all three of those
because they're all very interrelated. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. All right, do we have anybody else in the audience who
would like to speak? No takers? All right, thank you. So we will now close public comment and
move on to any-- we have our committee reports, and the committee minutes were included in

the Board packet. Does anyone have any questions regarding those matters of record? If not,
those committee reports will stand as submitted and become a part of the permanent record.
Just as a reminder, we do have now at our website, if you go to our two-week calendar and click
on the button titled Media, those are now where the most easy location that I know of to find our
video recordings. So if you'd like to share that with constituents or you view them yourselves,
that is where you will find those.
We'll move on now to the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update.
Committee Chair Walker, do you have any comments regarding the committee that you'd like to
update with us?
JEFF WALKER: Just that we had 100% participation in the survey. That's the first time in a
while that we've had that. The responses will be compiled for discussion. That's going to take a
little bit of time to put them all in a usable format.
And then the next meeting will be scheduled as soon as that's done. I don't know when that next
meeting will be, but we have some time before we have to start meeting again in the fall, so it
will be pretty soon. That's all that I have.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you very much. Now we will actually go to the approval
of the Board meeting minutes of June 26. And may I please have a motion to approve the
minutes from the regular Board meeting on June 26, 2018? All right, so I have Director Williams
as a mover, and Broom is second. And-- I'm sorry, do you actually want us to vote on this one,
Barbara, or just a verbal? OK. I got it covered up.
All right, so Director Williams and Broom, if you could please take the vote? OK, we have a
unanimous vote for 12. Nobody opposed. And now we'll move to the chair's report. I promise I
will not have the flair and style that Chair Tisdale would have with you, but I will get through it.
Highlights from the past month. Two specific items to start with. On June 27, Director Catlin,
you were the representative for the RTD Board along with a representative from Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT) who hosted a delegation of 30 Japanese transportation
dignitaries. And I understand you took them on a little tour of local transportation systems and
went over to CDOT Headquarters and gave them a showing? What was that?
PEGGY CATLIN: They really enjoyed the tour at Denver Union Station.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. Well thank you for representing the agency with those visitors.
And Director Walker attended the MAX participants and the alumni dinner held on June 28.
Then we move on to last week, we did have the first telephone town hall for our fare review.
That was Chief Financial Office (CFO) Heather McKillop and Michael Washington who hosted
that telephone town hall.
And then last night, we had our first open house meeting up in Boulder, and the Directors who
were present at that open house included Director Sisk, Lubow, and myself. It was well-attended.

I'm guessing there were probably 30 attendees. It was open house style, so the visitors were able
to move around and look at the different boards and then submit their comments on index cards
verbally.
So I don't know about the other Directors, but I know I spoke with quite a few people, getting
feedback. And then there was also a computer where they could do it electronically.
So, now upcoming events, we've got our next open house tomorrow at Englewood High School.
And followed by that, the one in Lakewood will be on Thursday. The remainder of the meetings,
the additional five can be found-- details can be found at RTD-Denver.com if anybody wishes to
join in on one of those.
Another event coming up is the Denver Metro Chamber will host State of the City event on
Thursday, August 2 at the Grand Hyatt Denver. And in attendance, we have RSVP for Directors
Anderson, Solano, Chair Tisdale, Director Williams, and perhaps some others.
We've got two writer appreciation events that will be coming up. Director Lubow's going to
attend the event at the Broomfield Station from 4:00 to 5:30 PM on Thursday, July 26, and
Director Sisk will participate in Boulder's event at the Table Mesa Station on the morning of
August 23 from 7:00 AM to 8:30 AM.
I did note in here, just as a heads up, that my understanding is we will have the contractors
involved with the Federal Management Oversight Program in town. And Dave, you can give
details or corrections if I get something a little bit off here, but they're going to be visiting us July
23 through August 3.
And I think in the past, Directors have been welcome to be part of the exit conference, which
they're expecting on August 3. And if there's anything I did get wrong in that, please correct me.
Meanwhile, that's all I've got on the upcoming events. So General Manager Genova, if you could
go into your report please.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Chair. I have a brief report tonight. There was just a short period
between the last meeting. First item I want to start off with, everyone's always interested in what
is the latest on the University of Colorado A Line and the G Line because it changes day-to-day.
We're actually progressing day-to-day in real-time.
So the best news we have there is that all of the gray crossings on the University of Colorado A
Line have been through their complete final approvals with both the Public Utilities Commission
and the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA). So we just got the final piece from FRA today
on the Quebec crossing to-- their concurrence to remove the grade crossing attendants. So in the
next day or two, we'll remove those attendants from Quebec, and that's the only crossing right
now that has any attendants at it today.
So that's a huge milestone getting through all those regulatory processes and approvals. The next
step regarding the University of Colorado A Line is to work towards obtaining the quiet zones.

We've submitted a couple of documents to that effect to the Federal Railroad Administration
already.
The team of Henry Stoppelcamp and Alan Miller-- they're actually in Washington, DC now,
there was a workshop on positive train control on Monday. They attended that, they've been
having on-and-off meetings and in calls today with other representatives from the Federal
Railroad Administration or the FRA. Then I'll be going out there on Thursday, we actually have
a meeting with the FRA Administrator Ron Batory.
So myself, Henry Stoppelcamp, Alan Miller, and then some representatives from Denver Transit
Partners. So at that meeting, we'll be discussing the continued testing on the G Line, the multitrain approval. We'll also be talking about quiet zones, and hopefully the path forward towards
revenue service on the G Line, all the different things that FRA is expecting that they need from
us. So I want to leave that meeting was just very good consensus on the path forward towards
getting the G Line open.
Regarding the multi-train approval, I put in the memo late last week, and I think I sent an email
out on Friday, that we did get a letter of approval from the Federal Railroad Administration. It
had some conditions in it as their approval letters always do, and sometimes we need to get
clarification on those conditions, and Henry and the team have been working on that over the last
couple of days.
What we anticipate is there is a very-- some edits to the final test plan that Denver Transit
Partners is making. We'll get that submitted either the evening or first thing tomorrow, and then
that should get us the final approval hopefully late this week, and then we will start with the
multiple trains.
So we will start-- we won't go from-- we have to out there now. Five trains is the full schedule on
the G Line, but that will ramp up over a period of days, so we'll start with three trains and then
move up towards the five trains and the full testing. At the same time, we'll be doing some
familiarization training for the Denver Transit Partners operators because they haven't-- some of
them have not been out on that alignment, so they need specific familiarization training.
So that is where we stand on the University of Colorado A Line, the G Line multi-train approval,
and the conditions. So when we get into the three trains, we'll probably be running about a 30minute headway with those three trains, and we'll be you're operating pretty much a full day from
3:30 in the morning until about 1:00 in the morning, so we will be very active probably towards
the end of the week.
Yesterday I attended the State of the City, that was Denver with Mayor Hancock, and it was a
good presentation to just hear what's on Mayor Hancock's mind and the accomplishments that
Denver's had over the last year and where they're going with their vision.
But I think most importantly for me is a lot of the mayors were there, and I was able to spend
one-on-one time with a few of our stakeholder mayors, and I was able to give a personal update

with Mayor Williams from Arvada, and then also Mayor Starker from Wheat Ridge on exactly
where we are on the latest with the G Line.
So that was very valuable to be able to give them the latest and then have their questions of me
and tell them where we're heading as far as the meeting later this week.
And then the Chair, you mentioned the town hall and the meeting in Boulder yesterday, I did
receive good feedback as well from the staff that they were well-attended. I'm hearing numbers
around the 9,000 mark that listened and participated and stayed in almost the whole time on the
telephone town hall on Thursday, we got some great interaction there.
And I think last night's, I heard from staff, they thought maybe it was 50 or 60, but I think we
have a final head count, we'll get that to the Board when we have it, but again, I got good
feedback from the staff that there was a lot of good interaction and the format was good and that
they felt that they were able to spend a lot of time with people going through their specific
concerns and questions and we got a lot of feedback.
So that concludes my briefing tonight, I'm happy to take any questions.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. We will start off with Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Menten. General Manager Genova, I am almost
speechless that the FRA misplaced or were so busy they could not answer an April 17 letter. And
I'm wondering if we have a plan to sort of keep this on their plate so we don't have to wait three
months for them to come out with another letter that has more hoops to jump through, and then
before you know it, three months here, three months there, it's another year, and I have to tell
you, the people in my city are really upset, really, really, really upset.
So I'm hoping that you will be able to keep them from losing our information or not keeping us
in the forefront. So do you have a plan?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, that's one of the main reasons why I'm going to meet with the
administrator, and I take it as a good sign that he's open to have that meeting. Typically when
we've been having the FRA meetings over the past few years, we meet with the leadership staff,
but very limited discussions or actually meeting directly with the administrator.
And so this administrator comes out of the railroad business, he's new to the FRA, and I take it as
just a good sign and good progress that he's willing to roll up his sleeves with us and spend time
on the open issues on the project.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I should share with you one of, a person I have known from the very
first time I ran for city council in Arvada. And I should share his letter with you before you go so
you're prepared. And to tell you, everybody has been criticized by this man in the past, so
nobody should take it personally.
[LAUGHTER]

DAVID GENOVA: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, we will move to Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Menten. General Manager Genova, good evening. Nice
haircut. I'm wondering if we have yet an overall on what the primary questions were from the
telephone town hall. I know we don't have them yet from last night, but I thought maybe we had,
you might have some feedback on what were the primary issues raised from the telephone town
hall?
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Director Williams. I did have just some general discussion with
the staff that participated in the town hall. One of the comments I received was about, 50% of the
comments were about service-related issues and not really about the fair proposal or any of the
other items that we actually talked about, and that's pretty common when we have the telephone
town halls, I think most Directors might agree that when we have the Board member telephone
town halls, we get lots and lots of questions about service-related issues.
But I don't have any real specifics or trends yet, but as soon as we're able to gather that
information and have it in a meaningful way, we'll share it as we have it available.
KATE WILLIAMS: One more. So thank you for that. I know it's a little early, but I wanted to
start to get a feel for that, and then as we progress through the public meetings that we're going
to have over the next two weeks I guess is what they spread out over, do you think at that and of
those we could get some kind of a summary of what the primary issues were? Just a simplified
one, I don't need a report from every one of those, but if you would pull it all together and give
us kind of an overall, that would be great.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, absolutely. I think shortly afterwards, we could put together some
kind of the general trends that we're hearing and getting input on as we're compiling all of the
data, so we'll do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Thank you, Madam Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Sisk?
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Menten, and thank you very much for coming to Boulder last
night, that was very nice of you to take the time. A couple of questions, if I may. Dave, going
through the years of service that we have, one of the years of service for our employees that
really stuck out for me was a gentleman that's been with us for 40 years.
And I-- we go through retirements, but here we have someone who's working for us for 40 years.
Other than showing his name or her name on a piece of paper, do we do anything to commend
them? Or do we give them a gold watch or something?
DAVID GENOVA: We do at every five-year increments.

CHUCK SISK: Right.
DAVID GENOVA: We do recognize them every five years with pins and other things that kind
of progress with the years.
CHUCK SISK: OK, all right. And the second thing is, I know that the communications
department has taken some grief, to say the least, from some of the Board members here. I want
to thank them very much for what they did last night. It wasn't as important that I was there, but
it important that the group that was assembling wasn't just communications, but again, the fact
that they were there and certainly made the evening very tolerable, made the approaches that
people had very comfortable.
And so I think it set the tempo. And again, there were a number of people there, and I really want
to thank them for that. I know there are going to be other meetings that they're going to attend, so
again, thank you for representing RTD and assembling the importance of RTD having that
presence. So thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Menten. Mr. Genova, I'd like to congratulate you and
your communications department on outstanding work on Art-n-Transit Last Saturday night,
Rocky Mountain PBS, the executive producer of Art-n-Transit or Arts District, Jennie Ross
Castor, received an Emmy because of the work that they did interviewing Art-n-Transit with
RTD. And so it's a huge honor to be nominated, it's even bigger to have a regional Emmy, and I
think your department should be very proud of that.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I am going to bring up one question that I have about the town
hall from last night, and that is-- because I don't have the patience myself to wait for all of the
comments, I opened up the comment box and went through all of them because I need the data
for myself.
My understanding was that we would have the EcoPass information available as soon as we
really started with these meetings. And that would include, I think, we're doing service area
changes potentially recommendations. And Heather, you're getting ready to come up? OK.
And also a range, we know there's a range, but it was very obvious, especially because we were
in Boulder-- that a quarter of the responses or more were saying, OK, you're giving me an
option, but I don't know what the price tag is. And so we're-- since our next meeting is tomorrow
night, and then we got Thursday and we only have the two weeks, what are we going to do?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather. So our plan is we sent out communication last week
to all of the EcoPass coordinators and told them about the changes that we're proposing on a high
level, and said within two weeks we would have the matrices out that have a range. So they'll

have a range because we can't give a specific number because there's a range of options right
now, and based on the price changes, the number that they might have.
So we are still modeling that information, we concentrated on getting everything else out first.
We also sent a correspondence to our NECO Pass holders with the same information and let
them know when we would be able to get that information out.
So it's going to be a couple of weeks, we're hoping to get it in time for them to have at least a
week or to give us comments prior to us coming back in August with a recap of all the comments
that we've heard, including the Eco/NECO Pass. We are meeting individually with the colleges
and large EcoPass holders as well as large NECO Pass neighborhoods. So those meetings are
ongoing right now on an individual basis, so they would know how they were individually
affected.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you, Heather. And we have roughly 2,000 entities?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We have I believe 900 coordinators on EcoPass, and then a couple of
dozen on NECO, and then another-- College we have like eight or nine, something like that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I would like to get that communication that was sent to the
coordinators. So can we just get that sent to the whole Board?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. We can send both the EcoPass and the NECO Pass letters that
were sent out.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you very much. Director William, you had a follow-up?
KATE WILLIAMS: I do, thank you Chair Menten. Heather, it's me again. Come back, come
back! I'm wondering if we don't have the information available at the meetings, if we could
maybe have a simple form that said, if you want to get this information, fill this in and we'll send
it to you later? Or something-HEATHER MCKILLOP: We should be able do something like that, yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: So that those people feel like they-- even if the information isn't there at the
moment that RTD-HEATHER MCKILLOP: I know we had a lot of NECO Pass people there last night.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's what I heard too.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And their biggest concern is utilization. They're not used to that like
the EcoPass people are, the College, so I was spending a little more time describing to them what
utilization means and how that'll be priced and how we're going to get rid of the survey and stuff
like that.

KATE WILLIAMS: Maybe just some way to tell them that they can get that-- and I don't think
everybody at the meeting would fill in, but if there was a little-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure, I'll talk to Michael and Scott's group and see if we can get just a
little something made up for that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Or we'll announce something that if they just want it to put on the
comment card, then we'll-- that would probably be the easiest way just to announce that if they
have questions on the details, that they can fill that information out and we'll get it to them.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much for that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. And Heather, you won't need to respond to this, but I know
quite a few of the comments were, we're doing our budget. We've already done our budget. How
we're going to do that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I understand the timing-NATALIE MENTEN: We would adjust that-- adjust that ourselves, right? Yes. OK. Thank you.
So that's all I had to add then to the General Manager's report. So now we'll actually move onto
our agenda for the items. And we have two items on the unanimous consent agenda tonight,
which are the approval of the Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) licenses, and approval of that
data and content analysis software.
So does anyone have any concerns where they would like to pull one of these items to
recommended action with further discussion? Director Sisk?
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Menten. I would like to not pull them, but to indicate to the
Board and make a disclosure that on the ERP license, I've discovered that-- I have a paralegal
that has worked with me for 40 years, believe it or not, and her sister works for Oracle has been
working on this project. I've not talked to sister about the project other than the fact I know she's
working on the project. I don't feel that I should recuse myself, but I wanted to put that on the
record, so please note.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you for that note. All right, so since we do not have any changes to
this unanimous consent agenda, may I have a motion now to approve the agenda?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Move approval.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, I had Director Anderson and-- was that Broom? Broom?
BOB BROOM: In course.

NATALIE MENTEN: And is there any discussion on this? All right, so let's move to a vote then,
please.
OK, we had 12 in favor and nobody was opposed. And we do not have any recommended
actions on the agenda tonight, so then we're already onto old business. Does anyone have any old
business? Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Menten. I just was looking at the Monday morning Dispatch
that talked about that we're doing much better on the labor front, and I wanted to hear some
details about hopefully cutting some of the draft routes that we've been dealing with. Is that
what's going on?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, our net numbers are up as far as the number of hires versus how many
people are leaving either through promotion or retirement. We've also-- so we would expect that
we would be able to be addressing the lost service hours much better, but also keep in mind that
we made changes to the collective bargaining agreement that have actually increased pieces of
work.
And so when we report it out on the last service hours report, we talked about that a little bit in
terms of we had an increase in the lost number of hours largely because of the impacts that we-the changes that we made on the collective bargaining agreement that worked towards more than
mid-term and long-term retention.
So we're working towards it, but it's certainly-- it's in the early stages yet.
JUDY LUBOW: I see. Well I haven't been hearing the kind of distress in the last few weeks that
I've been witnessing with the email, so I'm hoping that that indicates that things are calming
down a bit.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah. I know that the operations team is really triaging things as best they
can and really working to solve things.
JUDY LUBOW: I think Michael Ford might want to talk.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, we are seeing a reduction in some of the lost service. As Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) Genova said, we are working towards a better end, but again, the
collective bargaining unit agreement has created some challenges, quality of life issues that are
part of the collective bargaining agreement, that has created some, I guess stress, maybe not the
right word, but some challenges in how we can deliver the service better.
But we're working with Human Resources (HR), we're working to get more people in, the classes
are more robust than they have been, and I think we're turning the corner on it.
JUDY LUBOW: Can you envision a timeline where we're really back to-- I mean, we've been up
like 1,000% in terms of our losses, and I'd like to go back to where we're just normal.

MICHAEL FORD: Obviously we're going to do everything we can. I think we were looking at
this daily and weekly to see what else we can do. We've improved systems to get people into the
hopper in terms of people's application processes. We've got a person that I think Heather just
hired not too long ago or is in the process of hiring to be out in the community to solicit more
participation for applicants, and the process is going quicker.
Our maintenance and our operations folks are also out there at fairs and addressing issues,
showing them the ropes, and being there in uniform to help people understand what the nature of
the job is, and I that helps a ways as well.
So we're continuing to monitor and doing what we can to attract more people and to show them
that this is a good opportunity and good job.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. I'll continue to ask, hopefully till we get to the point where it's
just sterling.
MICHAEL FORD: We'll keep you updated, but it's a daily focus that we have for sure.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Menten. Mr. Ford, don't run away.
[LAUGHTER]
Just to follow up, could you please tell me how many operators we're short for both bus and then
train?
MICHAEL FORD: I believe around 60 for rail, and I'm looking at about 100, about 130 last
count when I looked at it. So we're still down, but we're working through it.
And we also have been working with the union to look at other resources that are available,
trainers and other supervisors, that can fill in at a pinch for the runs that maybe drop. So in
question to the lost runs, we're really working all the resources that are available to see what we
can do to restore service or not lose service.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So please correct me if I'm wrong, but it's my understanding that if an
RTD employee were to bring in an employee for rail or bus and that individual stays, that there
is-MICHAEL FORD: An incentive?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: A fee, an incentive paid to that employee who brings in another person.
So I know that, so you have a signing bonus of $2,000 for rail and bus operators, is that right? If
they stay 18 months or more?

MICHAEL FORD: Right, they have to stay a duration of time before they get it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And then that incentive fee is $1,000 per person?
MICHAEL FORD: I believe so. Is that correct? Yes. Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So, I imagine if people in the public knew they could bring in a person
who's qualified and stays and gets $1,000 and all they have to do is bring him in, you might be
able to fill those jobs rather quickly.
MICHAEL FORD: We're working on that, we're making people aware of it and-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, I mean offering the incentives to people who are not RTD employees.
MICHAEL FORD: Oh. OK. Definitely something we can talk about.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You think about $190,000 would be a fast way to get yourself the hosted
plates, so. [LAUGHS] I mean, that could incentivize somebody.
MICHAEL FORD: I appreciate the suggestion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: We are talking to HR about that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's all, Chair Menten.
[LAUGHTER]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Board members are employees and they get $1,000 too. That's all.
NATALIE MENTEN: That it?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Uh huh.
[LAUGHTER]
NATALIE MENTEN: She's trying to recruit me over here, by the way. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Menten. I've had a couple of complaints or concerns
registered for the drop routes. And not so much, I think they understand that we are short
operators, but the concern is communication, and they say, we can understand or can we at least
know what to expect or if the next bus is coming or whatever.
And similarly, I've had actually two people in the last two days comment on the shutdown of the- was it the C and D Lines along I-25? When the hay truck caught fire on I-25 and they sat at the

stations without knowing what was going on and when the next train would be coming, and one
person commented that they didn't get to the Rockies game until the fourth inning.
And they mentioned that we have the dynamic message signs at the stations and there are similar
types of communication on the trains, and why can't we utilize that?
Given that, though, I understand from talking to some staff yesterday that they're in the process
of maybe putting some of your communications people in dispatch to try and help with some of
those messaging situations. But again, they say, we recognize it wasn't RTD's fault that we were
stuck, but we just wish we would have had some information about-- so we could make some
choices. I mean, they were very respectful in their concerns, but I just wanted to pass that along.
MICHAEL FORD: Just to follow up a little bit on what you say, I think we weren't able to move
our vehicles because the fire department wasn't allowing us to move forward. As far as trying to
communicate on the train, I did talk to-- actually, the event was happening when we were in a
Board meeting here and we were huddling off to the side to make sure that we were doing all we
could to communicate with our passengers on the train. And the dispatcher was aware of that,
supervision was aware of that.
So maybe some people didn't get it, but I know that was a focus of our recovery.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I think one person was at the station, at the Park-n-Ride and they just
didn't have the information. He said there were over 100 people waiting. So, and I know you're
trying, I'm just saying these are some comments I've gotten very recently.
MICHAEL FORD: One other thing I'm seeing with the software that we do have, we're also
looking not just giving information by the route, but by the trip. So there's some more software
work that we're doing right now so we can be more exacting to our passengers and making sure
that they get specific trip information that's going to help them understand what's happening.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, that sounds good, thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Another question on lost runs, have we looked at the
possibility of providing alternate transportation to people when they find out that the run has
been canceled? Maybe Uber or Lyft could show up and take them and-- if you've paid for a
monthly pass, you expect to be taken where you normally go.
And there would be nothing worse than getting off work late at night, standing out there on the
corner and then finding out there's no bus. It should be some way that we can deal with those
situations. And I have no idea how much that would cost, but I'd like the staff to take a look at
that and see what they might be able to come up with. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Director Williams?

KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks. I'm still dealing with that concept. Mr. Ford, back to Director
Catlan's statement about people who are not aware of what's going on, there's I believe, Heather
might know the answer to this, there's a number of apps that indicate what's going on on time at
the moment, and they will tell you. And it might be real simple if we took some of our marquee
signs at the stations and said, for current information, go to this app.
I recently saw a commendation that we got because of the fact that we are very, very liberal with
sharing those apps-- even if they're not our apps, we were very good about communicating to our
constituents. So maybe that would help with that issue if we just had a bunch of posters made up
down at the sign shop over there at Platte that said, if you want to know what's happening, go
here and look.
And in direct relation to that, I have been riding the number 6 bus lately, and there's a lot of
space-- you know the signs that are up on the top of the bus there? There's a lot of blank room
there, and that might be another good place, I think I saw one, Scott, that-- to put that kind of
information. If you want to know this, get on your smartphone which you're carrying with you
and look us up. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Menten. I think those are really excellent ideas, I just
wanted to reaffirm and remind you that those signs at the light rail stations sometimes are
audible, sometimes they're not. I would like to see them consistently audible for folks with low
vision or no vision, and certainly those people if they're alone and they're visually impaired,
they're not going to see that sign. So if you can be sure that it's audible, that would be great.
Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Sisk?
CHUCK SISK: Thank you, Chair Menten. I'm confused but that's not unusual. Are we on new
business?
NATALIE MENTEN: You know, I was wondering the same thing. I'm looking at the agenda.
CHUCK SISK: I'm hearing some, but I want to-NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so we're still highlighted here on old, but I know we went into some
new.
CHUCK SISK: Im waiting for new business.
NATALIE MENTEN: But thank you for bringing us back to track there with-- all right. Do we
have any other old business now that we already treaded? No? OK, now do we have any new
business? OK. No? Yeah? Where'd it go? Ah, we do. All right.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry.

NATALIE MENTEN: We're going to go with Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you again, Madam Chair. I have some new business. I would like to
add on August 7, I think we have some room on the agenda, and I have an issue that I'd like us to
talk about. I don't know how to do this, I've never done this before, so I think the way to do it is
to ask if we can add something to the agenda? Yes? No? Maybe so?
NATALIE MENTEN: What did you-- with the meeting that you're speaking of?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: When you-- because we'll have a couple probably that evening. So the
meeting you're speaking of would be?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to revisit a little bit what's going on with the North Line and how
we're working on that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I don't know how I do that.
NATALIE MENTEN: General Manager Genova.
DAVID GENOVA: May I just ask-- in terms of the operations and maintenance or construction?
KATE WILLIAMS: Operations and maintenance.
DAVID GENOVA: OK. What we could do-- we could do an update. It's probably appropriate.
We haven't done one for a while, we'll give an update on our operations and maintenance.
KATE WILLIAMS: On that night? Thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: In the operations committee.
NATALIE MENTEN: That'll be August 7. So FasTrack's committee would be appropriate for
that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. I looked, that's why I thought that might be the right time.
NATALIE MENTEN: Would that be?
DAVID GENOVA: I think FasTracks or Operations I think are both OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I'm cool. That was my new business. Thank you very much.

NATALIE MENTEN: So if there was any difference, then it would be just a week later during
the Ops and Customer Service unless I'm wrong on the calendar? But your request is-KATE WILLIAMS: The sooner the better.
NATALIE MENTEN: The sooner the better. OK. All right, so that is noted then. Thank you.
Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm going to have to miss the meeting tomorrow night in Englewood.
I'll be taking off for Salt Lake City as part of Leadership American Public Transportation
Association (APTA) Committee. So I'm sorry I won't be able to go, but I'll catch up at Thomas
Jefferson for sure I think next Monday.
Also, Blueprint Denver, the first draft to the public will be released, I think all of the Denveright
parts will be released in early August, so keep an eye out for those, it's Denver-specific, but it
might help inform any of your communities outside of Denver that are kind of planning
comprehensive plan updates. So take a look at that, give your thoughts/input, because a bulk of
our system is served, does serve residents and employees of Denver-- in Denver.
So that's all. Just keep an eye open in early August for the release of Blueprint Denver and all of
those Denveright parts and pieces. Thanks.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Walker, I'm just going ask because I have a personal friend that
was affected on that last blueprint. So this would be related to, which I'd spoken to you about, if
you remember. Is this blueprint is going to include zoning also?
JEFF WALKER: No. Blueprint, it doesn't have any teeth, it doesn't have any legislative teeth. It's
something that's the foundation of zoning, but it doesn't have any zoning-- it has zoning concepts
in it, but the actual zoning contained in the Denver zoning code. So it helps inform any future
zonings, it helps inform the comprehensive plan which then informs zoning-- leads the to zoning,
which is the regulation. That's the law. The zoning ordinance is the law.
NATALIE MENTEN: And it will have some transportation components to it?
JEFF WALKER: Yes. So Blueprint Denver is the transportation land use component of the
comprehensive plan. So you'll see how the land use affects the transportation system, vice versa.
And by transportation, it's all forms-- foot, wheelchair, bikes-- talk about skateboards or scooters
yet. And definitely our RTD system plays a big role in that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: And you can sign up to get an email notice. There's a very good place if you
get into the website, you can sign up to get a notice from our new release.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right, thank you for that information. Director Sisk?

CHUCK SISK: Is this new business still?
NATALIE MENTEN: We are new business.
KATE WILLIAMS: Different business.
NATALIE MENTEN: No old business.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you. Thank you, Chair Menten. I would like to see a report on two things.
Number one would be our signing rights. I haven't seen or heard anything come in since the
University of Colorado A Line (CUA Line). And again, we're looking at income, and that was
supposed to be the way that we were going to advantage ourselves. And I think it's been
probably over 12 months since we've had any report.
The second thing is I'd like to have a comprehensive report on our signs that we have on buses,
because it appears to me that the signs on the buses, if I'm looking at it, it looks like we're losing
revenue by virtue of not having a lot of signs on buses.
Now maybe the director's running for the RTD seat, so we'll put a lot of signs on and we'll take a
lot of money in the next couple of months, I don't know. But again, I'd like to see what are space
is, what are-- really see-- drill into this, and really call-- I know we have an ad agency, but really
find out-- are we really being as aggressive as we should be? Can be? And where are we with
that? And where are we not to budget, but also we're-- expectations. So I'd like to see a
comprehensive look at that.
MICHAEL FORD: We are planning on doing the update to the Board on the 26 of August, I
believe it is.
HEATHER MCKILLOP:: In the study session.
MICHAEL FORD:: In the study sessions, so happy to bring that back as well if that would be
acceptable in terms of we can walk through that.
CHUCK SISK: Again, it's just something that I think it's a revenue opportunity, and I really
would like to see what we've done, what we haven't done.
MICHAEL FORD: Sure.
CHUCK SISK: OK?
MICHAEL FORD: Absolutely.
CHUCK SISK: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You just want a sign in the back of the bus that says, goodbye, Chuck.

[LAUGHTER]
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Anderson?
CHUCK SISK: Hit the ground Chuck.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Director Sisk, for that great suggestion. And I would like
to suggest that the G Line, like the University of Colorado A Line, be called the Molson Coors
Line so we can have a beer train again.
[APPLAUSE]
I'm done.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. Is everybody done with new business? It looks like
we are. So, now it is that time in the evening, let me get my wording out here. It is time for an
Executive Session.
For heads-up in the audience, I will entertain a motion to move into Executive Session for the
purpose of discussing the Denver Transit Partner's dispute resolution process and negotiations.
Colorado Revised Statutes 24-6-402 4(b)-- Conferences with an attorney for the local public
body for the purposes of receiving legal advice on specific legal questions.
And CRS Colorado Revised Statute 24-6 S 402 4(e)(1)-- Determining positions relative to
matters that may be subject to negotiations and developing-- one more-- developing strategy for
negotiations and instructing negotiators.
So I had Director Anderson as the mover.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
NATALIE MENTEN: And Director Williams, and we will take a vote on this to get approval to
move into Executive session under Colorado Revised Statute.
Yes. Because we'll make sure we clear the rooms, we'll take just a few minutes here. So if
everybody's voted here first-- Director Williams, you did vote, right?
KATE WILLIAMS: I voted yes, ma'am.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So we have 11 in favor, that means somebody walked away there.
Director Archuleta did not vote, so we're still good with 11 in favor and zero opposed.
So we will wait till we've got the room all cleared out, but will take just a couple minutes' break
here, and then we will come back and have this discussion.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

