Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, August 8, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:38 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Absent

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:15 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Absent
Absent
Present

5:32 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:31 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Director, District I
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:26 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Committee Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:01 PM
5:25 PM
5:35 PM
5:22 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:10 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:12 PM

Directors Archuleta, Deadwyler, and Folska were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Gina
Callahan, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps,
Nate Currey, Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Ron Enserro, David Genova,
Bob Grado, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara
McManus, Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Brenden Morgan, Skylar Mott,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Jannette Scarpino,
Cheryl Sclafani, Cal Shankster, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman,
Tanzania Trout, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Mac Callison, Richard Edwards, George Fuller, William Gross, Jeanne
Shreve, Simon Smith, John Thompson, Gary Van Dorn, R. Paul
Williamson

B. Recommended Actions

• Approval of Bank Signature Authorization
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature
Authorization Agreement (the “Agreement”).
BACKGROUND
Wells Fargo, as the District’s commercial bank, requires prompt notification
of all modifications in the authorized signatories on the District’s various
bank accounts. In order to reflect any changes in District personnel and the
election of new Board officers, the Agreement is updated at least annually
and periodically as otherwise required.
DISCUSSION
The attached recommended Agreement has been modified from the
previously approved Agreement only to reflect the addition of a new
checking account which will be used solely for paying invoices related to the
winding down of the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA).
Funds deposited in this account will be transferred to RTD from the DUSPA.
The creation and use of this account will enable RTD to clearly account for
the remaining DUSPA funds as DUSPA’s remaining obligations are paid over
time.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This recommended Board action poses no financial impact to the District.

1.

2.

ALTERNATIVES:
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature
Authorization Agreement (the “Agreement”).
Modify the attached Agreement.
Do not adopt the attached Agreement.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the August 15, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer/Assistant General
Manager of Finance & Administration, said that Brenden
Morgan, Senior Manager of Debts & Investments, would
provide a brief overview of this action item to the Board.
Mr. Morgan stated that this action item was for an update to
RTD’s bank account signature authorizations. He said that the
change this time is in relation to the winding down of the
Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA). He noted
that DUSPA and RTD are creating an agreement so that the
remaining payments will be made through RTD and that $1.5
million will be deposited into a commercial checking account
to pay the remaining obligations. He added that this account
will help staff track the remaining outstanding obligations.
Ms. McKillop noted that there is a predetermined list of
obligations which will require the signature of the CEO on the
invoices. She added that this account is only the mechanism
to make the necessary payments.
Director Broom asked if the funds would be invested.
Mr. Morgan commented that staff had not yet received an
expenditure schedule from DUSPA for the remaining
payments. He said that once the schedule was received, staff
can determine if any of the funds can be invested. He
remarked that the funds would not be in the account long, as
they will most likely be spent within a year, but staff will try
to make prudent investments with the money if possible.

Committee Chair Menten asked if street improvements would
be paid for with these funds.
Ms. McKillop explained that there are a variety of things that
need to be paid out but the bulk of the money will be applied
to a project that RTD will be administering on behalf of DUSPA
and the project will last one to two years. She noted that the
remaining funds will be applied to several other smaller
projects.
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta, Barbara Deadwyler, Claudia Folska

C. Updates

• Quarterly Investment Report
Mr. Morgan commented that the District’s investment report for the second quarter was
included in the packet. He stated that page 11 of the packet had the two line graphs for
Cash & Equivalents Performance and Enhanced Cash Performance. He added that the
lower graph is the actual performance compared to the benchmark, and there was nothing
too exciting to report at this time.

• Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
Ms. McKillop stated that, staff would provide an update on both the Strategic Budget Plan
(SBP) and the Annual Program Evaluation (APE). She explained that most of the
information to be presented the Board has already seen before, but staff wanted to update
the Board on a few changes. She commented that staff hopes to have the APE and the
SBP as close to being balanced as possible by next month, and staff will also introduce the
long range financial plan for the first time in 2017, which will not be balanced. She added
that staff has some systemic problems in the long range plan, and that will be discussed
further at the Study Session on August 22, 2017.
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis, commented that she
would discuss the SBP outside of the PowerPoint. She noted that staff had prepared two
previous drafts and this is the third. She explained that staff had gathered more

information, sharpened their assumptions, and have continued to analyze the project
requests in the SBP.
Ms. Scarpino commented that staff had further reduced project requests to minimum must
have projects for both Expense and Capital. Staff had also reduced operating expenses by
$5 million annually, diesel fuel pricing was added to the plan with an estimate of $1.80
per gallon, and this combination represents a higher difference of $17 million over the SBP
term. She noted that the fleet will be acquired with previously issued Certificates of
Participation (COP) proceeds and the use of the Capital Acquisition Fund. She added that
the fleet replacement had been reduced in size by $40 million and the Board Appropriated
fund and Operating Reserve will continue to be funded at $3 million and $5 million
annually, respectively. In this third version, staff has reduced the gap to $160 million, but
the SBP is still far from being balanced. She explained that, in terms of cash flow, RTD
had exhausted all of the usual options and what RTD was facing was not a pretty picture.
She noted that projects identified to proceed in this SBP version were a small fraction of
RTD’s total needs and the list of the minimum must have projects identified so far may
change as the SBP is balanced. She noted that staff included the deferred projects list,
and those appeared on pages 30-32 of the packet. She remarked that the deferred
projects total $400 million between operating and capital expenses over the six-year term
of the SBP and the deferral list may change as staff still needs to close the funding gap.
She added that many of the deferred projects are becoming critical and staff will likely
need to review the same projects again for next year’s SBP. She commented that, staff
expects the Base system to fund FasTracks as early as 2023, and although it does not
appear in the cash-flow at the moment, the need may arise.
Ms. McKillop stated that staff will be back again at the Study Session on August 22,
2017, to walk the Board through the six-year SBP and the long range financial plan.
Director Broom asked if the projections included salary increases for upcoming years.
Ms. Scarpino stated that salary increases were not broken down, but were included as a
whole.
Director Lubow said that this projection seemed more difficult than projections from
previous years. She noted that there were higher expenses on the N Line but asked staff
if they could articulate what exactly was going on.
Ms. McKillop stated that there were multiple reasons, but they were all very similar. She
said that from the revenue side there were two issues: sales and use taxes as well as
grant revenues were down. She added that when revenue goes down and expenditures
go up, those compound each year.
Director Lubow inquired if these things were foreseeable or if staff was surprised.

Ms. McKillop said that she was not surprised.
She commented that staff made
adjustments to the model and informed the Board last year that this year would be
difficult.
Director Lubow remarked that this year was not an economically bad year.
Ms. McKillop explained that in previous years, to some degree, RTD lived beyond its
means. She said that this should not be a surprise, but RTD needs to get to a point where
it can maintain what it has and not expand beyond that threshold.
Ms. Scarpino added that RTD has been struggling on the FasTracks side and said that the
Base system has had to assume some of the FasTracks costs.
Director Williams asked about the bond proceeds used for capital expenditures on line 31.
She inquired if they had been paid off, or if RTD was out of bond proceeds.
Ms. McKillop said that RTD is out of bond proceeds. She said that the Transportation
Expansion Project (T-REX) bonds will be paid off in 2025, which creates another problem
that is a Taxpayer Bill of Rights (TABOR) issue. She added that the majority of the bonds
will be paid off in 2024.
Director Williams commented that there are 100,000 people a year moving to the Denver
metro area. She asked if those people were not using transit.
Director Sisk said that given the continued sobering effect of the budget, staff needs to
get this information out to the public. He said that they will not want to be surprised, and
there are not enough funds to put into the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
reserve. He added that RTD is building up the expectations of its constituents and RTD
needs to tell them that we are down to $0 and will be making hard cuts. He further added
that he would rather be the agency that said here is what happened versus having people
speculate. He noted that it is not a great thing, but it is manageable.
General Manager Genova stated that staff has been presenting information in a variety of
forums. He noted that last week he presented at the full Metro Mayors Caucus and Ms.
McKillop presented at the North Area Transportation Alliance (NATA) group.
He
commented that this week he would present at the North Metro Elected Officials meeting,
and staff is trying to inform all of RTD’s stakeholders about where the agency is
financially.
Director Williams added that this information should be presented to the Pass Program
Working Group.
Director Sisk commented that this information runs concurrently with both staff and the
Board talking about this. He added that the Directors should not make promises that the
agency cannot deliver.

Director Francone stated that the agency is expanding and is not able to take care of what
it has. She said that she hopes staff would address some of those concerns at the Study
Session and, as Directors, they need to know as much information as possible so that they
can tell their constituents the truth. She noted that the Directors are held accountable and
are responsible for both the Board and the agency. She added that first and foremost,
Directors need up-to-date information about the projects currently under construction,
such as the South East Rail Extension (SERE), the G Line, and the N Line.
Chair Hoy said that in regards to Director Williams comment about 100,000 people per
year, that number is a bit deceiving because 30,000 of those are babies born here. He
added that many years ago, there was a Sustainability Task Force Committee and a lot of
good things came out of that series of meetings. He noted that one of the hardest things
he has gone through was the service cuts, and RTD will either have to increase revenue or
decrease its expenditures. He commented that he has been informing his constituents
about RTD’s fiscal health and encouraged others to do the same. He then inquired if staff
had locked in fuel for 2018.
Ms. Scarpino said that staff expects the fuel lock to be higher in 2018 than it was in
2017. She noted that, at present, it is steady at $1.80 per gallon.
Director Anderson said that she agreed with Director Sisk that the issue is serious and that
RTD needs to let people know. She remarked that she is concerned with using Base
system funds for FasTracks and added that the G Line needs to be opened and put into
revenue service. She further added that the G Line should be a priority for the agency and
getting that line up and running could help make a difference in RTD’s finances. She
explained that it is imperative that the agency provide service to everyone, but noted that
tax money can and does run out.
Director Lubow stated that she agrees that it is important to be real, honest, and
transparent about RTD’s fiscal health. However, she commented that her constituents are
going to say that they will not get their project and there are going to be a lot of angry
people in her district and that discussion will need to be dealt with.
Director Solano commented that a couple of years ago RTD was initiating projects but
now the agency is running out of money and telling people that the projects will not be
completed. He said that he had gotten a call at 4 a.m. that morning from a constituent
who said that their bus did not show up. He said that, in order for this agency to run
properly, operators need to be paid a living wage.
Director Broom explained that RTD is dependent on sales and use tax, but one major trend
underway is that people are spending less on goods and more on services. He noted that
sales taxes are not collected from services, which RTD should examine, and added that
other cities and transit agencies are all experiencing the same type of problem.

Director Tisdale remarked that the one thing that would really benefit RTD, along with
others, is the passage of the federal Main Street Marketplace Fairness Act so that RTD
could get the sales taxes from all internet sales. He noted that people are buying goods, if
not more so, but they are doing it online. He commented that RTD does not receive all of
the taxes it deserves and the agency needs to see that this bill is passed and implemented.
He added that there is a hiccup in the state law right now and RTD is losing revenue for
the rest of the year, and hopefully, that will be returned once the legislature returns to
session next year, as there are tax dollars that RTD is entitled to but not receiving.
Director Francone commented that the solution to RTD’s problem is not to receive
additional tax funds but to examine how the agency is spending the funding it receives.
She asked if RTD was spending money to further transportation or if it was being spent
elsewhere. She remarked that staff and the Board need to figure out what RTD is
spending its money on and determine if it is for RTD’s mission.
Committee Chair Menten asked if staff could explain the Corporate Rebranding, Imaging,
and Education line item.
General Manager Genova explained that it is to improve marketing materials in a more
strategic manner in order to increase ridership.
He added that it is only under
consideration at this time.

• Annual Program Evaluation (APE)
Susan Cohen, Senior Manager of Finance, said that the map was the same that was
displayed at the last Annual Program Evaluation (APE) presentation. She noted that the
issues were:
 North Metro Project
o Construction schedule
o Cost to complete construction’
o Future operating and maintenance costs
 Financial Plan
o FISA balance drawn down by 2022 to replenish unrestricted fund balance
o Capital Acquisition Reserve balance drawn down in 2020
o Funding shortfall remains after reserves are drawn down
Ms. Cohen noted that the summary cash flow side had not changed, but the only
difference was that the negative fund balance was highlighted in red. She added that
staff has examined alternatives to reduce the funding shortfall by possible revisions to
FasTracks corridors, completing an internal budget review on all FasTracks projects, and
using Base funds for FasTracks to cover the deficit. She noted that an updated cash flow
chart would be available at the Study Session on August 22, 2017.

• June 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, remarked that the report is for the June financial results. He
noted that, halfway through the fiscal year, RTD is in the green and the budget is positive
on a year-to-date basis. He noted that, because of their late release date, the exact sales
and use tax figures were not included in the packet, but they came out better than staff
had estimated. He commented that July’s report will demonstrate the negative figures
from the loss in sales and use taxes, and if things continue, RTD should be on budget by
the end of the year. He explained that fare revenue is over budget by 2.8% and on a yearto-date basis the agency is up 10%. He noted that all of the expenses are under budget,
but there are still six more months to go.
Committee Chair Menten inquired about the changes to the marijuana tax retention and
where the difference in taxes are going.
Ms. McKillop stated that as of July 1, 2017, marijuana retailers are no longer collecting
the 2.9% tax, or RTD’s tax. She added that they were notified to change their point of
sale machines to no longer collect it and stated that RTD found out when the state begin
to produce information to notify the vendors of the change in tax collection.

• SmartCard Project Update
Ms. McKillop commented that this chart is dwindling away because the main portions are
going away. She said that in September there will not be a lot to discuss, so she asked
the Board if the SmartCard Project Update could be provided quarterly instead of monthly.
She added that after the disaster recovery in September, not much of the report will
change except for routine upgrades and maintenance.
Committee Chair Menten said that changing the report update to quarterly should not be a
problem and, if an update is needed, it could be fit in.
Tonya Anderson, Electronic Fare Operations Manager, stated that the King Soopers and
Safeway expansion had been fully live for a month. She said that during the testing phase
in the first quarter, King Soopers averaged $700 per store. She noted that Safeway did
well in the first and second quarter and the average load at that store was $36.00. She
noted that, in terms of stabilization, there will always be issues with technology, and staff
has been working through those issues through a ticket system with Conduent. She
stated that Conduent is very responsive and is working alongside staff to mitigate any
issues. She said that, for the MyRide Portal, staff is working on the Payment Card
Industry (PCI) remediation and plans on a December release date. She added that staff is
also working on the auto re-load ability so that customers can have a scheduled re-load
applied to their cards so that they would not have to visit the web portal each time. She
further added that the platform validator screen tests continue and so far the weather has
been slightly cooler, so staff has not documented as many issues. She noted that staff is

still waiting for Conduent to provide remediation to determine why certain screens are not
working.
Director Broom commented that, for both King Soopers and Safeway, they participate in
this program because it will bring people in the door. He asked if there was a vendor fee
associated with the program.
Ms. McKillop said yes, and indicated that RTD pays them 1.5%.
Director Francone stated that she continues to receive accolades for the MyRide program
but noted that when she hears complaints about the validators, it is usually when the
temperatures are high. She congratulated Conduent for a job well done and inquired about
the Notice to Cure that was sent to Xerox.
Ms. McKillop said that they are still under a Notice to Cure as there are still two
outstanding items: PCI compliance and the platform validators. She added that they still
have outstanding obligations under that notice that RTD is holding them to. She added
that the weekly calls are going well and things have improved dramatically but noted that
it does take constant communication from both sides.
Director Walker asked if the auto re-load would be based on a monthly or weekly
schedule.
Ms. Anderson remarked that at this time it is based on value. She said, once the balance
of the card falls below a certain dollar amount, it would automatically reload.
Chair Hoy inquired if the sales at the grocery outlets were new sales or if they were from
the old standard media.
Ms. McKillop said that staff did not have enough information to make that determination.
She stated that staff would observe the trends to determine if there was a shift from
paper products to the MyRide Cards and mobile ticketing.
Chair Hoy commented that over time it would be advantageous to have people use smart
media products in order to reduce the costs of the paper media products.
Ms. McKillop stated that staff is considering ways to encourage people to use the new
ticket options.
Director Tisdale explained that the Directors, from time to time, are given tickets to pass
out to people. He said that the Directors are not using MyRide Cards yet but asked if in
time the Board would use them, too.

Ms. McKillop indicated that the cards would have to be registered in order to track their
use. She said that staff is currently discussing options and determining what Board
distributed MyRide cards would entail.
Director Anderson commented that it may not behoove the Board to pass out stored value
cards, especially since there are different values for different types of service.
Ms. McKillop stated that staff would have to review the logistics. She explained that, if
someone lost their card without registering it, the value would be gone. She noted that
staff is trying to figure out how to accommodate people within the system, and so far,
they have been able to make several of the requests work.
Director Williams asked whether there would be motivation for King Soopers and Safeway
to steer people to the MyRide Cards if staff removed some of the constraints off of the
system. She then stated that RTD should look at partnering with someone else if
Conduent is not helping the agency get to where it wants to be.

D. Other Matters
Director Walker said that one of the benefits of attending various APTA meetings is
hearing from other agencies that are having the same issues as RTD with regards to
ridership and finances. He said that in general people are spending less on luxury items
and fun stuff, so society is in the same position it was in when the recession hit. He
added that RTD will tighten its belt to meet the current demands in order to get people
where they need to be.
Director Francone noted that she appreciated staff’s and the General Manager’s ability to
walk through and discuss issues with the Board and she encouraged them to bring
everything forward, both good and bad, so that everyone is on the same page. Lastly, she
noted that four Directors had not completed their General Manager survey and she asked
that the remaining surveys be completed as soon as possible.

E. Next Meeting Date - September 12, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 6:51 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

