Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, November 3, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Absent

6:29 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:30 PM
6:30 PM

Claudia Folska

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:31 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District J
Committee Chair

Present
Present
Present

6:30 PM
6:30 PM
6:29 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

6:30 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Absent

6:30 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:30 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

6:30 PM
6:31 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:30 PM

Directors Archuleta and Menten were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Jessie Carter, Heather Copp, Nate Currey,
Kevin Diviness, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Kate Iverson, Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Mitch
Kuharski, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod,
Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue,
Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, John Tarbert, Bill Van
Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Ryan Archibald, Maggie Bedwell, Jenifer Brandenberry, Z.J. Czupor,
Mike Dino, Jane Donovan, Elizabeth Enserro, Maria Garcia Berry, Joni
Goheen, Pauline Haberman, Sherman Hamilton, Eugene Howard,
Leesly Leon, Sheryl Machado, Roger Sherman, Marta Sipeki, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan Wagner

B. Updates

• Draft Policy for Joint Development and Disposition of Excess Property
Kate Iverson, Manager for Transit Oriented Development (TOD), reminded
the Directors that staff presented a general outline in June and further
details in August. The plan is to present the full draft today, reach out to
the Board members individually in the next few weeks, and come back to
the Board with a recommended action in December.
She explained that the Draft Policy for Joint Development and Disposition of
Excess Property included in the Planning and Development Committee
agenda packet for November 3, 2015 does not address acquisition or
management of property. The policy is meant to provide clarity and
transparency by outlining the purpose, definition, and process for disposing
of excess property.
She highlighted item III.3., which details that the policy does not preclude
the GM from seeking a separate delegation of authority from the Board for
specific projects or circumstances and does not modify any prior delegations
by the Board. She added that the GM/CEO shall provide an annual report to
the Board as well as following Federal Transit Administration (FTA)
requirements for properties with a federal interest.
Committee Chair James suggested to change the wording under III.3.a.i.,
which reads, “all access and utility easements across and benefitting RTD
property,” to “all access and utility easements encumbering and benefitting
RTD property.”

Director Lubow had a question under the Delegation of Authority section.
She wondered if any of these things could blow up to a larger magnitude
before the Board needing to be notified or if the situations described are so
de minimis that no one would really care. Marla Lien, General Counsel,
replied that staff really tries to be de minimis with the items under this
category. She noted that the Board has already given the General Manager
authority for similar contracts and even more authority for properties that are
part of projects.
Director Bagley said he would be interested in knowing which RTD
properties have a federal interest. Kate Iverson replied that RTD properties
with federal interest are any property purchased with financial FTA
assistance. She mentioned that a vast majority of RTD property is
purchased with FTA assistance even if the project as a whole is not a
recipient of FTA funding. Director Bagley asked if he should direct his
questions on how the Southwest rail expansion property was purchased to
the TOD staff as he is not sure how the properties were purchased. Marla
Lien answered that yes, that would be the appropriate department to receive
those types of questions. Kate Iverson added that the TOD department
would then work internally with other departments to formalize an answer.
Susan Altes, Senior Manager for Property, added that federal interest does
not depend just on how the property was acquired, but also on the use of
federal funding for construction and any improvements. Director Bagley
noted there have been no improvements on the Southwest extension
properties. Susan Altes replied that grading is an improvement. Committee
Chair James requested that any similar questions be taken offline.

• Draft Unsolicited Proposal Policy for Real Property
Kate Iverson, Manager for Transit Oriented Development, reminded the
Directors that just like the Draft Policy for Joint Development and
Disposition of Excess Property, the Draft for Unsolicited Proposal Policy for
Real property was presented to the Directors as a general outline in June
and further details in August. The plan is to present the full draft today,
reach out to the Board members individually in the next few weeks, and
come back to the Board with a recommended action in December. She
added that no changes have been made since the August update.
Kate Iverson referred the Directors to the Unsolicited Proposal Policy for Real
Property flowchart as included in Exhibit A of the Planning and Development
Committee agenda packet for November 3, 2015. She explained that the
flowchart outlines the process on how to evaluate the best interest of the
District when reviewing an unsolicited proposal.
Director Francone pointed out a correction that needed to be made under
Notice of Receipt of Joint Development Proposal. She noted that the
section being referred to is Section III.B.3 and not III.B.4.

Chair Sisk stressed the need for transparency when dealing with unsolicited
proposals. He would like to make it clear that RTD does not have any inside
deals. He added that unsolicited proposals give him heart burn as it
concerns him that someone would have information that the general public
would not have. He said that he does not think that the current draft
outlines steps RTD will take to dispose of property. Kate Iverson
appreciated Chair Sisk’s remarks. She explained that the intent of the policy
is to make the circumstances for sole source very narrow. She noted that
staff has reached out to the development community asking where to post
sale opportunities. The general reply is the Colorado Real Estate Journal.
Chair Sisk added that he would like RTD to cast as wide a net as possible.
Kate Iverson added that staff will post a notice with adequate periods of
time as to provide opportunities for responses.
Committee Chair James said that he appreciates Chair Sisk’s transparency
concerns. He wondered if the policy could include an obligation to maintain
RTD’s list of real property, updating it to also contain the status of each
property, and make it public. Kate Iverson replied that this idea would
require more thought as the Federal Transit Agency (FTA) requires that a list
be kept of excess federally funded property but joint development is
complex. Committee Chair James invited staff to think this through in the
context of Chair Sisk’s remarks.
Director Lubow echoed Chair Sisk’s concerns. She added that she likes
transparency and competition as much as possible. She asked if her
understanding of III.B.3.a. was correct in that RTD could have direct
negotiations with a proposer if they own land contiguous to an RTD
property. Kate Iverson explained that the intent of this section is to maintain
the ability to negotiate, for example, a small remnant property that is not
valuable to anyone but the contiguous property owner and/or if the adjacent
owner’s property was so vast that no one else would be able to leverage
development. Director Lubow noted that the policy as written does not
explain these items. She said that the policy should be as precise as
possible in order to not give any appearance of impropriety.
Director Lubow wondered what the notification requirements are and asked
staff to look into what the Federal and State governments do for
notifications. She noted that her research showed that the average notice
was one day in The Denver Post, which to her was not enough. Kate
Iverson replied that she will research what is done at the State and Federal
level as well as the current RTD practices. She acknowledged the tension
between moving quickly through the process while making sure there is
enough time for interested parties to know what is going on and respond.

Director Walker told staff he understood what the policy is saying and found
it well written. He added that he gets the transparency aspect while also
still wanting a small fishing net to catch the specific developer who would
maximize the use of the property.
Director Anderson noted that there are industry standards for these types of
notifications. She recalled from her experience in City Councils how
expensive publishing notices really is. She said that RTD needs to be
prudent making the proper notifications but not wasting money. She added
that real estate professionals know where to find these types of
notifications.
Committee Chair James thanked Kate Iverson for her work. He noted that
this policy would enhance RTD’s image with the communities we work with.
He added that he is comfortable with the policy the way it is and finds the
level of transparency adequate. He wondered if the draft has been
compared to other peer agencies. Kate Iverson answered that staff studied
similar policies from Seatle, Nevada, Bay Area Rapid Transit, Washington
Metropolitan Authority, among others. She noted that the policies run the
gamut and that she would be happy to provide context for comparison.
Committee Chair James replied that he does not need the context for
comparison; he was satisfied with knowing that the work had been done.
Committee James asked for clarification on item III.A.1.b. regarding the Real
Property and TOD Committee. He asked staff to confirm that this
committee is an internal committee of staff. Kate Iverson said that was
correct. She added that in order to identify the needs of the agency, each
Assistant General Manager had appointed someone from their department to
represent them in the committee in order to ensure understanding before
moving forward. Committee Chair James suggested that maybe the name
of the committee should be Transit Oriented Communities (TOC). He added
that he looks forward to finalizing the policy.

C. Other Matters
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning, briefed the Board on a
slight modification to an existing local government program. He noted that the
program bequests $300,000 from the budget to make funds available to local
governments for improvements directly related to transit. Local jurisdictions submit
their projects and RTD awards the funds as merited. Bill Van Meter noted that the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) and the Federal Transit Authority
(FTA) had similar programs; however, they have eliminated those programs partly
due to funds coming directly to RTD. He added that staff plans on increasing
RTD’s program funding to $350,000 to make up for lost opportunity to the local
governments. This amount is included in the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and the
budget that will be brought to the Directors later this month.

Due to the increase in the funds, Bill Van Meter pointed out that RTD will be
tightening the rules for the types of projects that can apply for this assistance. The
minimum will be $10,000 and the maximum $50,000, with the possibility of a
higher amount if multiple jurisdictions apply jointly. RTD will require a 20% local
match in order to ensure the local jurisdiction’s engagement and to stretch the
funds. He added that projects shall have an emphasis on safety, accessibility to
transit, and an impact to transit operations/improvements. Staff will be notifying
the local governments about the changes to the program and inviting them to
submit projects.
Committee Chair James suggested that staff also send the notice to the Board as
the Directors could promote the program through their local contacts. Bill Van
Meter replied that staff will contact all jurisdictions and will reach out to the
Directors as well.
Director Lubow noted that this is the type of program she really likes as it is a
benefit for the public good. Due to her quest for finding a third way to not raise
fares, she said that she had some questions regarding the program. She asked
staff how much it would cost to administer the program. Bill Van Meter replied
that the administrative burden is relatively small as solicitations happen once a year
and are reviewed by the Planning and Capital Programs departments.
Director Lubow asked if the amount of $50,000 was equivalent to the funds that
CDOT and the FTA eliminated. Bill Van Meter replied that he speculates CDOT and
FTA’s funding was higher. He added that RTD wanted to make this program a bit
more robust while ensuring that other budget responsibilities were met.
Director Tobiassen wondered if the type of projects that could be submitted to this
program included improvements of ramps and streets for accessibility to ADA
riders. Bill Van Meter replied that these were the types of improvements RTD
would seek. Director Tobiassen said that this program could potentially save RTD
money by making fixed routes more accessible instead of riders having to use
Access-a-Ride.
Committee Chair James encouraged staff to share this program with local
Transportation Management Organizations (TMOs) and Transportation Management
Associations (TMAs). Bill Van Meter said that only local government jurisdictions
could apply; however, TMOs and TMAs could funnel projects through their local
jurisdictions.
Chair Sisk asked staff to provide the Board with the 2015 allocations for this
program. Bill Van Meter said that he would provide this information to the Board.
He noted that not all $300,000 have been disbursed to date. Any remnant funding
will return to the budget.

D. Next Meeting Date - December 01, 2015
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 7:05 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

