2023-05-09
Finance and Planning Committee Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: Recording.
Good evening. The Tuesday, May 9 Finance and Planning Committee meeting will now come to order. We
are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. And I would respectfully ask everyone who is
attending this meeting, please, to make yourself on mute, if you would, unless you are recognized to speak.
That will help the meeting be orderly and understood by all.
We want to thank you, all, for joining us this evening. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD
Board of Directors will continue, at least for a while, to be held remotely via Zoom conferencing. And they
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings,
will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. That's rtd-denver.com. So visit that website
for those materials.
In addition, a livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube channel. So Directors and
members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during tonight's
proceedings, I would ask you, please, to raise your virtual hand, and wait for me to call upon you before
proceeding to speak. And Directors and staff who are participating by phone, well, they can also raise their
virtual hands to indicate they would like to speak by pressing Star 9 on your phone. And to toggle your mute
setting on your phone, you simply press Star 6.
So the first thing I would like to do is to call the role for the committee members. Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Bobby Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And Chair Lynn Guissinger is away on an excused absence from this meeting.
And Director Michael Guzman is also away on an excused absence from this meeting. Director Ian Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And Vice Chair Erik Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: And Chair Doug Tisdale of the Finance and Planning Committee is present. I also note,
for the sake of the record, that we have Director Marjorie Sloan with us present in the meeting. Are there
any other-- oh, and I now see Director Bob Broom has also joined us for this meeting. And I do not see any
other Directors. Are there other Directors present? If I have, please feel free to speak up.

All right, seeing none, I think we're set. So I would now like to open the public comment section of our
meeting to anyone who would like to address the Committee regarding any topic that is listed in the
published meeting agenda for the current or for the immediately preceding month. Now if you wish to speak
and you haven't already done so, please either raise your virtual hand, or press Star 9 on your phone. So
we'll wait a moment to give people an opportunity to raise their virtual hand, either on their laptop or other
device, or by pressing Star 9 on the phone.
Let me ask, staff, do you have any indication of anyone having raised their hand or requested an opportunity
to speak?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: There are no hands raised. And there were also no emails received.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, no hands and no emails-- so we appreciate that. It avoids the necessity of my
doing the normal disclaimer about if you have asked to speak that you'll be recorded and so forth. So we
proceed on, having concluded affording the opportunity for public comment. And we'll proceed with the rest
of our meeting.
The first item that we have in this Committee meeting is always to give an opportunity for external entities
to share information with us. I am advised that we do not have any information from external entities to
share this month. Let me just confirm with staff. Am I correct? There is no information from external entities
that we have received.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: That is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Tai-Shrae. Then we proceed to the next portion of our agenda,
which is recommended actions. There is one recommended action that we have on our agenda this
evening. That action is for the grant agreement with the Colorado Energy Office to implement the 2023
Ozone Season Transit Grant Program. And this is a recommended action for the Board of Directors to
authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement,
referred to as an IGA, with the Colorado Energy Office and to authorize the transfer of up to $2.2 million
from the unrestricted fund to effectuate the 2023 Ozone Season Transit Grant Agreement, which will
address the months of July and August of 2023. Do we have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: And let me see who that is.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Davidson.
DOUG TISDALE: Ah, Director, OK-- Vice Chair Davidson. And is there a second to the motion?
IAN HARWICK: Second, Harwick.
DOUG TISDALE: Harwick is the second to the motion. Thank you very much. So I have Davidson and
Harwick as movement and second, respectively. I would now like to ask Michael Davies, the Government
Relations Officer, and Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, to present this item to the Committee.
Gentlemen, the floor is yours.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr Chairman, I would like to turn it over to Michael Davies. And I'll support
him on any questions that might be asked. Thank you.

MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. And hello, Chair, members of the committee. I'm Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer and, as Chair Tisdale said, seeking authorization for up to $2.2 million that we'll use to
implement the 2023 Zero Fare For Better Air program through the Ozone Season Transit Grant Program
that's administered by the Colorado Energy Office.
The Ozone Season Transit Grant Program was created by Senate Bill 22-180. Senate Bill 22-180
authorized funding for up to two years. This year would be the second year of that funding.
This year, House Bill 23-1101, which the Board took a support position on, was signed into law and made
improvements to the SB 22-180 program that allowed roughly $2.9 million in unused funding from 2022 to
be available for the 2023 grant period. One other improvement was it also removed the 20% RTD required
match funding that was a requirement of last year's grant program. Those two improvements allowed RTD
to apply this year for this grant funding through the Colorado Energy Office and roughly use the same
amount of funding-- $2.2 million is the same amount that the Board authorized during the 2022 program-and so use roughly about the same amount of funding and offer two months of Zero Fare For Better Air,
anticipated to be implemented in July and August of 2023.
RTD is working closely with the Energy Office currently to receive information and receive approval for our
grant application. And with approval of this funding, it would allow our General Manager to enter into a grant
agreement with the Energy Office and ultimately implement the 2023 Zero Fare For Better Air Program. So
with that, I will end my comments, and happy to take any questions. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Davies. Mr. MacLeod, do you have anything that you want to
add to that before I open up to the committee members for further questions and discussion?
DOUG MACLEOD: I do not have anything to add. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. So as I understand it, just to summarize for the sake of the record
and for everyone listening to this, it is a recommended action that would spend just a little bit more than we
spent last year-- or up to that amount-- but we would be doing it for twice as long as we did it last year.
Specifically, we are targeting the months of July and August for this for roughly, more or less, the same
dollars. Is that a correct summary, Mr. Davies, Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. Yes, that is correct, Chair. And what I would add to that, as well,
is last year for 2022 the Zero Fare For Better Air reimbursed RTD 80% of the $9 million that RTD had
budgeted in the month of August for fares. So our RTD received $7.2 million.
Very similar to this year, we'll be reimbursed for lost fare revenue of approximately $15 million. However,
that will be on 100% basis. So the $2.2 million is the ceiling and essentially is why we're asking for this
appropriation-- is because it is an appropriation for expenditures for the items listed within the Board report,
including advertising, some of the system changes that need to be done with our vendors to turn off the
fare acceptance validators, et cetera.
We don't necessarily know what the net impact will be. But essentially-- and I say that because we don't
know what the ridership will be that would have generated this lost fare revenue. So the assumption is that
it will replace any of the budget fare revenue. Currently, we're under budget on our fare revenue through
March. So I think RTD financially will come out closer to a break even when this is all done.

DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. That's an excellent expansion on the information. And I appreciate
that. And I know the committee members do, too. All right, are there any questions from any committee
members relative to this proposed recommended action?
I don't see any hands up. And I see a thumbs up from the Vice Chair. Are there any questions from any
non-committee members, any Directors who have a question relative to this item that they would like to
bring forward at this time? And I see no indication from Director Sloan or Director Broom. So I take it we
have no objection to that.
Let me ask, then-- based upon that, we will conclude the discussion. Are there any no votes on this item?
He paused and waited to make sure everybody had a chance and then concluded that we have unanimity
in support of the recommended action with 5 aye votes, no negative votes, and no abstentions.
And I do want to point out that Director Guzman, who was not able to be here for the meeting pursuant to
an excused absence, did have some comments-- which I would like to just read a couple into the record
right now. He said, one reason he was in support is that customers will receive the immediate value of their
tax monies in a very real and usable way-- which I thought was a nice statement. And reducing ozone
building ridership creating a welcoming, safe, and reliable transit environment has been the theme since I
joined the Board. Time to put our money where our mouth is. So I share those observations by Director
Guzman just so that you are all aware of that.
OK, then we turn to our next portion of the agenda. And we have two discussion items on our agenda this
evening. The first item is the Zero Fare For Youth pilot program proposal. And at this time, I would like to
ask Bill Siroius, our Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities, and Carl Green, Jr, our Director of
Civil Rights, and Chris Quinn, our Planning Project Manager, to present this particular item. So gentleman,
Mr. Siroius, the floor is yours.
BILL SIROIUS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And what we wanted to talk to you about tonight-- many of you
know, as we have talked about before, we are proposing a Zero Fare For Youth pilot program. And that
has gotten a lot of support from a lot of different avenues.
And the one thing that we want to pursue is some early actions on that, looking at actually doing some
outreach so that we may be prepared potentially to implement that in an accelerated fashion with the coming
school year, the 2023/2024 school year. We think that would align well if we were able to do that. So in
preparation for that, we've got several items that we are planning to pursue in advance of any Board action.
And those are listed in the Board Report, but I'll go over some of them. So the first is reaching out to FDA
to get permission or kind of acknowledgment to enter into a pilot program. And we're looking to do the pilot
program for 12 months. So we would need to get FDA approval of that, along with our approach to Title VI
and how we plan to do data collection associated with how we measure impacts to potential Title VI
populations as part of this program.
Also, we do need to start some outreach with the school districts. We have been talking with some of them,
particularly with Denver Public Schools. But we need to reach out to all of them. And so we want to start
that process to get them understanding of the program and their expectations and also hear feedback from
them, as well.
And then, also internally-- which we're actually starting this week-- is trying to get folks together to talk about
implementation, and some of the issues in terms of enforcement, and some other things that we need to

do and we need to resolve as we go forward with any kind of pilot program hopefully sooner rather than
later. And then an important piece that we would like to start-- obviously, it's probably going to take a little
while-- is really start those conversations with potential funding partners looking to reach out to some folks
we've heard from but others in particular school districts, local jurisdictions, and others that we may reach
out to look at being potential funding partners to solidify this program and make it a sustainable program
beyond the 12-month pilot program.
So I think those cover the things that we are planning to do. But I think this was more-- we wanted to inform
the Board that this is the direction that we intend to go and that we will come back in July when we come
back with the full recommendations and the feedback that we're garnering currently during the engagement
period that we're going through right now-- that we would give information to the Board on some of these
items in terms of updates and our recommendations, ultimately, in terms of the implementation of a Zero
Fare For Youth pilot program.
So with that, I will open it up for questions. And Carl, Chris, or I could answer any questions the Board may
have.
BOBBY DISHELL: Chair, you're on mute.
DOUG TISDALE: I know. I was so conscientious in making sure I didn't make noise while you were
presenting that I forgot how to get it off. I thank you very much. That was a very nice summary of this whole
thing. I will emphasize to the committee members and the other Directors present, it is just a discussion
item tonight. We're not scheduling this for taking action now.
But that said, you heard Mr. Siroius address the fact that we expect this to come forward in July so that we
can then take a final and formal action at that time. And as is mentioned in your report, the idea is to have
this so that it can be implemented as of the school year, which of course will be, in this case, for September
because we anticipate-- assuming the Board adopts the Free Fare for Better Air that we just passed on-July and August will be free, anyway. So it's a question of September 1 is when this would have an impact.
All right, so those introductory remarks aside, let me go to Director Dishell. You are recognized, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you, Mr. Siroius and your team for this great
presentation-- certainly, have my wholehearted support. If there's anything we can do to be of further
assistance to help line up funding partners, things of that nature, please do not hesitate to reach out. I thank
you guys. This is really impressive work and incredible, something exciting to look forward to and I think a
great rallying point for many, both here on the Board and certainly in the community for establishing that
and making that available for kids.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Richard Dishell. Let's go to Director Catlin, Madam First Vice
Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I'm excited about this, too, for a number of reasons-- one, introducing
new customers that might make them lifetime patrons or lifetime riders. And I don't know if I'm going to be
very articulate with this question. Number one, there are our school districts, like Jefferson County, that are
underserved. But when you reach out to them, would there be an opportunity to gauge potential interest or
potential new ridership if we were to introduce some new routes for this particular pilot program? I think
that, particularly in my area, there might be some opportunities to entice some of the youth to ride.

And then secondly, my children went to a private high school. And they attracted youth from all over the
Metro area. And a number of my children's friends would catch the bus in Green Valley Ranch, for example,
or in Park Hill and do a couple of transfers, and transfer all the way down so they could get to Mullen High
School. And I was wondering if, as part of your outreach not only with school districts, if you were going to
perhaps contact some of those private institutions-- and I can think of a number of them across the Metro
area-- that do serve some of the underserved communities, I guess. And I just was wondering if that was
part of your outreach program? That's all, a two-part question-- thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: A two-part excellent question. Mr. Siroius, do you want to attempt the first go round with
that?
BILL SIROIUS: Sure. And I'll also ask any of my cohorts to chime in, as well. But the second question first- yes, we do plan to reach out to private high schools. In fact, we're having a discussion about that today. I
know that Carl has already gotten-- we've gotten the full list of school districts. And we're looking to also
supplement that with the private high schools. And I know that we will do. So we are definitely planning on
doing that.
In regards to service, we are not, as part of the pilot planning, to look at any additional service over what is
planned. And we've had discussions with Jesse and his team. That's not to say that in the future as demand
would grow and as resources are available that we could look to add service. But as part of this pilot, we
are not looking to add any service. We're looking to basically accommodate it with the service that we have
out there and that we can accommodate with the resources that we do have.
PEGGY CATLIN: Can I ask a follow-up?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, you have your hand back up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. And I guess I wasn't suggesting that in this pilot that service be changed. But
hypothetically, as you reach out to some of these school districts, if you could gauge interest in potential
service to some of these areas-- that's all I was-- I didn't mean to imply that you would change service right
now. But perhaps look at a hypothetical situation.
And maybe these, like, parent-teacher organizations or even some of the administrators could do a survey,
conduct a survey and find out if there would be interest among their student population. So I was just
wondering if that could be a way to gather information. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Maybe we could also use it as an opportunity to recruit for operators and mechanics while
we're talking to these high school students. Mr. Green, your hand is up, sir.
CARL GREEN: Yes, Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just to piggyback on Mr. Siroius's comment regarding-- and to
follow up with Director Catlin's question with regards to our outreach and also, in addition to that, to the
survey instrument-- so we're including public schools, private schools, entities serving, whether they're
looking for their GED, alternative schools. So it will be comprehensive in our approach to make sure that
we hit that target demographic between six and 19. And to your point, Director Catlin, with respect to the
survey instrument, we could include questions that would bring about that information as far as interest
level, as far as this pilot program and what it can provide for our service area.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you, Mr. Green. General Manager, CEO Johnson, let's hear from you now.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair. Good evening to all. I just wanted to share for
everyone's edification, as it relates to RTD being a recipient of federal dollars, when questions are posed
about specific grants garnered for schools, we have to be careful in that we can't provide specific routes to
schools. But we can provide routes in which people are trying to get relative to activity centers. So I just
wanted to qualify that for everybody assembled, recognizing that we do provide mobility options. But in
doing so, we aren't allowed under federal regulations to have a specific school bus route. And I just wanted
to share that as we move forward.
And then more so about resources of course, when we look at various routes to add back, we'll be doing
that through an equity lens adhering to Title VI. And then more specifically, we have to ensure that there's
people power as we go full steam ahead. And as you know, with the presentation that will be provided
tomorrow night, at Operations and Safety Committee, we have made our commitment to look at those
routes going forward. And there's a notable route being brought back.
And I know Director Sloan is on this call and acknowledges that as we move forward because it was
basically all about resources. So thank you very much, sir, for the opportunity to share that information with
all of you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, General Manager, CEO, we appreciate your supplementation of
all of that. Are there other members of the committee or other Directors who wish to address us at this time
on this matter relative to this discussion item on Zero Fare For Youth? All right, I don't see any other hands
up now.
Let me just advise that Director Guzman, once again, who is not able to join us, did share a couple of
comments. And I'll just briefly give you two of those. He indicates that he has reached out to the DPS School
Board, specifically to request their feedback on that issue. And obviously, he is anxious to get their
engagement-- but of course, would not take any action unilaterally but rather just bring that to us.
He does also, in a very heartfelt plea, urge all of us to, in our exercise of our responsibility as duly electeds
with a fiduciary obligation to the district, that we reach out to school districts, city councils, county
commissioners, business chambers, and other members of the community to strive to raise awareness for
the funds that we will need for the continued operation of this program. So I think he expresses eloquently
what we all have talked about. If we're going to do this-- and we'll make a final decision as a recommended
action in July concerning this matter-- it's important that we all get behind it and engage in going forward
should we make that decision-- not prejudging that, of course.
Any other comments based upon what the Chair has now shared with you relative to our first discussion
item on Zero Fare For Youth pilot program? All right then, let's turn to our second discussion item this
evening. And we're all looking forward to this because it's the Board Retreat summary. And we're going to,
at this time, to recognize our Committee Vice Chair, Davidson, and Doug MacLeod, as our Chief Financial
Officer, to introduce this item and to share with us the write up that they had that's part of your Committee
Packet that you receive.
I will say, from my own point of view, they've done an excellent job of summarizing a number of issues that
we raised at the retreat. This is an opportunity for this committee to take a few minutes to weigh in on this
to make sure that we are exploring as diligently as we can alternative revenue streams and opportunities.
Let me turn it over to Vice Chair Davidson to lead this discussion.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate it. I'll go ahead and lead off with just a summary of
what is in the packet and what was discussed at the retreat. And then our Chief Financial Officer, Doug
MacLeod, I'll open up the floor to you to fill in some gaps and give your perspective on what it is that we
need.
And then we'll come back around and talk about some next steps. So as discussed in other matters at the
previous Finance and Planning Committee meeting at the March 25 Board Retreat, the Board of Directors
identified the need to create a long-term, sustainable, and resilient funding model for RTD as a key policy
goal for this current Board. So the discussion tonight is just intended to further recap that discussion, as
well as to start laying out the next steps.
So first of all, there were two fundamental finance topics that we discussed at the retreat as playing a role
in shoring up RTD's long-term financial position. One is the diversification of RTD's revenues. And two is
any TABOR impact mitigation strategies we might be able to explore.
So first, I'll start from just recapping the discussion around the need to diversify revenue. So thank you very
much to Doug MacLeod for including on packet page 8 the pie charts that you'll see. So first of all, as you
see on packet page 8, RTD's sales and use tax collections accounted for approximately 2/3 of our annual
revenues in 2022. However, and very notably in 2023, this is actually expanding and growing to 3/4
approximately of RTD's revenues as the one-time COVID relief funds exit our budget.
So this dependence on sales and use tax represents a multifaceted risk to the Agency. First of all, and
perhaps most materially, any significant disruption to consumer spending has a material impact on our
ability to operate. That's all the more true in the presence of any type of TABOR ratchet-down effect we
might face which we'll come to in the second portion of the discussion here.
Second of all, the extent to which we can actually maintain and scale our services is dependent on those
sales and use tax collections and solely on those, which may not be the only metric that Coloradans want
to measure the need for transit against. So at the Board Retreat, we brainstormed some ideas. We talked
about the need to map out where we are and some things that we might be able to explore in efforts to
diversify our revenue. So as you'll see in the packet, one thing we discussed was, if we haven't already, to
do a benchmark of our funding structure in our model against other peer-US-based transit agencies that
could help inform opportunity identification and also help us communicate with any of our public partners.
Second of all, we talked about the need to review any previous work. There has been some prior work done
at RTD to look at opportunities to diversify revenue. Some things I think don't really move the needle. And
it'd be good for us to take a look at that so we're not repeating all of that work.
And then we had a discussion around creative solutions and opportunities we might research as potential
alternate sources of funding. Fees occupied a large portion of our discussion at the retreat. This is
something Director Broom has brought up in the past a number of times in looking at what we do and do
not have jurisdiction over. We talked about public funding sources and partnerships you might explore. In
some ways, we're already starting to talk about that as we look at Zero Fare For Youth and our long-term
strategies for funding should that pilot be successful-- private funding sources, foundation sources.
Additional advertising opportunities came up-- funding swaps or volatility mitigation measures, monetization
of parking, and other opportunities. Some of these will be better than others. I know that Mr. MacLeod has
some great perspective on which of these might move the needle, what might not, and what might actually

be disruptive to other functions in the Agency or even to our customers. So I'll kind of table that. We'll come
back to that for next steps after I'll open the floor to Mr. MacLeod.
But exploring these ideas, I just want to emphasize, it's really cross-functional. It's legal when we start
talking about what we have jurisdiction over. It's operations. What's disruptive? What can we do? Especially
as we talk about things like parking, it's finance.
So I'll come back to that when we discuss multiple steps. One thing I just want to mention is I did have the
pleasure to speak with Mr. MacLeod recently. And I don't want to steal your thunder, Doug, but I really like
the way you put it, that one of the most important things we need to do is create a backstop. So I just wanted
to highlight for the Board, and for staff, and for everybody here that-- I think this is a thoughtful way Doug
had put this.
We can operate at our current funding level the way we are. That's thanks to a lot of hard work that's been
done over the last couple of years. If we want to expand, that's a different conversation. But to maintain our
current level, we need to have backstops to prevent large financial shocks to a single revenue stream from
disrupting our ability to operate.
So again, determining what to propose and pursue will be cross-functional. But second of all, I'll go to the
second piece here. And then I'll open up to Doug, finally. We also discussed the need to mitigate potential
impacts that TABOR might present to us. We're facing the end of our exemption potentially in 2024.
So we did have a discussion around mitigation strategies that the Board might be able to undertake, and
take a position on, and also for, then, staff to pursue. In many ways, this has already been underway from
the TABOR Ad Hoc Committee, the work of Mr. MacLeod, the work of Mr. Davies in looking at opportunities
and government relations, et cetera. We talked about the potential to create an enterprise fund to separate
fair revenues from other sources, recognizing fares are small. And Mr. MacLeod's looked into that, I know.
We talked about potentially taking a position on and pursuing a debrucing, something this Board has not
formally taken a position on. We talked about potentially extending the TABOR exempt period from an idea
that came through finance and exploring a refinance of one of our bonds to 2026. So those were the things
that we discussed.
Before getting into next steps, I'd like to just open this up to Doug MacLeod and to please further highlight
any needs, any specific risks, any specific history of some of the efforts that have been done, as you've
been here longer than many of us here on the Board. So open the floor to you to add what I've missed and
give your perspective, as well, if you would, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you very much, Vice Chair Davidson. And you really summed it up very well. I'm
very pleased that the Board as the policymaking body is undertaking this effort to really look at how we can
diversify our revenue sources and mitigate some of the risk that we're exposed to on the financial side.
Historically, some of the items that we've been exposed to-- so in 2008, 2009, the Great Recession caused
a 10% decrease in RTD's sales and use tax collections.
We did recover over subsequent years. It took about five years, actually, to get back to the pre-Great
Recession levels, just to give you an indication of what type of impact that can have to our RTD's finances.
And as Vice Chair Davidson mentioned, we're now even more exposed, having our sales and use taxes be
3/4 of our revenue sources at this point.

It's two causes, as Vice Chair Davidson mentioned, the loss of the COVID funding, as well as the decrease
in fare revenues, which was one of the items that we could control as an agency through policymaking-control the level of fares and the amount of fares that we collected, to a certain extent, of course. With
COVID and low ridership, lower fares, that made fare revenue a lower percentage of the overall pot of
revenue sources. In addition to the fare structure changes we're talking about implementing possibly in
2024, it will become less of an impactful measure of our revenue successes.
One item that we don't talk about often, too, is that our sales and use taxes are also susceptible to legislative
changes in terms of exemptions. And when we talk about exemptions, there are items which are taxable.
And there are exempt items which are non-taxable.
RTD follows the state tax exemption item list. And so any changes that the state might enact could affect
RTD for better or for worse. So that's another item, to a certain extent, out of our control. We can try to
address it through legislative changes ourselves. However, that is a potential exposure area there, as well.
I would like to mention that we have put some things in place. There was a Fiscal Sustainability Committee
that was convened back in 2010 and 2011 following the Great Recession to look at these same items. And
to summarize what came out of those recommendations essentially was, because of the limits that Vice
Chair Davidson described in terms of our enabling legislation for RTD, and what we can tax, and our options
to identify new revenue streams, they're somewhat limited.
So I'm glad we're undertaking this with a little bit of a different approach at this point, kind of looking at
diversification, rather than just adding new revenue streams. Some of the revenue streams that were
identified were relatively immaterial from that effort. So this will be a good strategy going forward, hopefully- that we can come up with some recommendations.
A couple of other things that came out of that is we did establish a more robust reserve policy to help get
us through these swings. And I would add, generally speaking, when we do have a shock to our revenue,
the most impactful response that we can have to that generally is cutting our expenses to match with our
revenues. And where the largest cuts can come-- sizable ways to make those adjustments-- generally are
to our operations and the service that we provide.
So given our strategic priorities of customer excellence and community values, we would like to reduce the
risk of having to make those types of decisions due to economic conditions. The reserves that we have-three months of operating reserves. And we've actually exceeded that recently. The policy is to keep at
least three months of operating reserves is intended to ride out those shocks, which would hopefully be
temporary. So we do have some things in place.
But I believe, in addition to looking at diversification and possibly new revenue sources, we can also take a
multi-pronged approach and really attack this from the perspective of our balance sheet and where we have
other commitments in terms of our debt levels. So our revenues first go to pay our debt. And then everything
that's left over is used to pay for operating expenses, capital expenditures, and the like.
So to the extent we can look at those types of approaches to mitigate the exposure on the liability side of
our balance sheet-- and we've taken some steps to do that. Through the CBA negotiations, we were able
to reduce the financial exposure on the pensions for our represented employees. We also, through a couple
of the most recent refinancings, we have the ability occasionally to reduce our debt exposure from an
interest rate perspective.

But one of those refinancings, the 2012 FasTracks bonds refinancing, we actually use some of our excess
funding to pay off some of the principals. It was similar to paying down mortgage a little bit early, reducing
the future interest expense, also reducing the future debt payments that we as an agency are committed
to. So there's other strategies I believe we can employ to take a look when we're having good times
financially, and look at that strategy and our policies regarding how we would address and in what priority
we can address those types of items to lessen our exposure on the risk side.
And I think, Vice Chair Davidson, you already covered some of the items that we're already thinking about.
But we're definitely looking for ideas of working with our financial advisor bond counsel. Any ideas welcome.
And we hope to come up with something that works well, that's innovative, and solidifies to a greater extent
our long-term fiscal sustainability. So I'll turn the floor back over to you, Mr. Vice Chair. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks. Thanks, Mr. MacLeod. I appreciate it-- well said. And before opening it for
questions, I'll summarize the last part of what's in the packet, which is in those next steps, which I think is
a good segue here. So this time, starting from the TABOR impact mitigation strategies, I think it's clear that
the next steps are for the TABOR Ad Hoc Committee to meet and discuss some of these.
I think what I would propose is that committee bring forward some specific ideas in that area of the TABOR
impact mitigation strategies to this committee, to the Finance and Planning Committee, who then, in turn,
can make recommendations to the Board at large. So just by way of example, not speaking on behalf of
what we may or may not do, perhaps one recommendation we might receive from the TABOR Ad Hoc
Committee would be a formal position on debrucing or along the lines of the refinance that Mr. MacLeod
was alluding to. And then, by the way, we could bring that through this committee, make the
recommendation, a recommended action come out of Finance and Planning, and then bring that forward
to the Board of Directors. So I think that would be the proposed next step for what we do on TABOR impact.
As for revenue diversification, Mr. MacLeod, you characterized it well, that this is pretty multifaceted. And
so I think it makes sense. One outcome of this could be-- aside from tasks I know that staff would undertake- would be that there might be several policies that the Board needs to put in place like-[ECHOING]
OK, I think I'm getting an echo there. --like our Board had put in place with the reserve change, for example,
out of the financial stability. So it could be something like, in the good times, we're taking advantage of
opportunities to pay down debt, whatever that might look like.
Either way, I think we'll need recommendations on policies and recommendations on a path forward. So
this is likely a cross-functional group across a lot of different parts of the organization. So if it is agreeable
to this committee, to the Chair of this committee, to the Chair of our Board, to the CEO and General Manager
Debra Johnson, to CFO Doug MacLeod, I'm more than happy to engage with all of those parties to frame
up what a cross-functional group and next steps might look like so we can start pursuing some
recommendations that would ultimately come from staff-- I think, most likely, led by you, Mr. MacLeod-- to
this Board to take some positions on.
So just to recap the TABOR of impact mitigation goes to our Ad Hoc TABOR Committee, brings that, brings
any recommendations forward to this Finance and Planning Committee to bring to the Board. And then I'm
happy to engage with all necessary parties to frame up what type of cross-functional group and effort would
be needed to explore revenue diversification to bring back to this committee. So with that, that's what we

had to discuss here with some proposed next steps. Mr. Chair, I'll yield the floor back to you to shepherd
the discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And we appreciate, A, the hard work, and, B, the excellent work
product, and, C, the amplification of same during the course of your presentation here. I think that helps.
And I want to emphasize one thing because it is possible that there are some people watching this who
might be a little confused. Recognize that, when we show that sales end use tax as a percentage of our
revenue, we'll go from something like 66% to something like 78% or whatever, it doesn't mean that sales
and use taxes have gone up. What it means is that the portion of federal funding that we have received has
gone down. And so that's what inflates the percentage portion of our budget that is represented by sales
and use tax.
So I just want people to understand it's not that, oh, well, you're getting so much more taxes now. No, we're
actually getting the same-- right around the same. But it becomes bigger as a percentage because the
federal funding has essentially gone away.
Director Dishell, you are recognized, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Davidson and Mr. MacLeod for really the
hard work here-- just a few other anecdotes, I think tools in the toolbox, so to speak. One is the FICA
account, FasTracks internal savings account. That's an invention of the Board. The Board invented it. The
Board can take it away.
As of the April Board briefing document, which is February 23 on audited financials, we're sitting just shy of
$150 million. There's a real point in time at which we need to put strong policy over politics. I was not around
when the FICA account was created. But my understanding is that it was created to really appease
communities so that, look, we're saving some money. We're saving some capital to be able to build X.
The reality is, if we're operating from a responsible financial position, we're not having political funds set
aside. If that allows us to pay off our debt early or significantly reduce our debt to free up capital, which we
can use for capital expenses in a responsible way, it seems like that's the better choice. And I don't want
us to lose sight of the fact that the FICA account is Board-invented creation that was done for political
reasons. Not, if it's in the best financial interest of the Agency, we shouldn't shy away from opening that
fund up for things like refinancing and paying down debt early, like backflow and funds that might have a
TABOR ratchet down.
I think our park and rides are specifically well positioned for electric vehicle chargers. Those are a revenue
source on two fronts, one on leasing the parking spot, and the other on percentage revenue from the actual
cost of doing the charging. As the state transitions EVs over, I think one thing many folks forget is gas
stations make their money on things people buy inside of them more than the gas they sell. And those
things people buy inside of them are, by and large, subject to the tax that we get money from. And so there's
sort of a ripple effect as we transition over and I think a real opportunity with our park and rides to offer that
as an amenity and as a service for folks who are focused on decarbonizing.
I think, finally, one thing that would be good-- and this may have been said as part of the long list for the
TABOR Ad Hoc Committee-- is, what are our options for TABOR refunds? The state, in the past couple of
years, has done some refunding or lowering of property taxes or other items. Are there ways that we can

refund the funds in a similar manner, whether that's through reduced fares, whether that's through some
other mechanism?
And I think, really to the extent that we can, creating an enterprise fund is good. It gives us more flexibility.
It exempts those funds for TABOR. I've said it before, but I'll remind folks that Colorado Parks and Wildlife
is an enterprise fund. They're not subject to TABOR. They largely fund themselves all on their own. Not
that I don't think we will get there, but I think looking at how to be strategic on creating divisions-- or within
an agency, that can be sort of economically autonomous-- is beneficial.
And then I think the last thing I'll say is, as we're looking at this, it's important we take soft costs into account.
Staff time, percentages of FTE, while they may not show up on the balance sheet in the same way, there's
costs to starting programs. And then the final thing I'll throw out there is a innovation challenge of sorts.
There's 15 of us. There's probably several employees who may-- maybe tens of employees who will touch
this-- there's 3-million-plus people in our region.
And what does it look like to set up some sort of challenge, innovation challenge, for folks at a relatively
low cost with a prize of some sort that incentivizes this but that may end up garnering better ideas than
those of us sitting around the table can come up with? So some food for thought on revenue diversification,
and TABOR, and cutting expenses without cutting staff. Because that is, I think, our biggest expense, not
something I'm really interested in touching unless it's increasing the right way.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Dishell, a lot to chew on there. And I think that's exactly
what we're hoping for from everyone is some further engagement in this process. Because we know that
this is something that we agreed upon at the retreat-- is an important topic for us to carry forward. We know
that Committee Vice Chair Davidson has worked hard with CFO MacLeod to bring together sort of an initial
talk piece.
But we need all of you to engage and participate in this discussion going forward. And we know that we
already have the TABOR Ad Hoc Committee in place that is looking at coming up with some suggestions
for next steps relative to TABOR that's going to require this Board to take a serious look at this process and
see where we want to go. Other comments relative to this second discussion item, relative to the Board
Retreat notes on financial alternatives-- Director Dishell, you want to supplement?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Yes, one other item which came to mind as I put my hand out after discussing
this-- technical assistance. My understanding is RTE does provide a good bit of technical assistance for
folks, specifically folks who are out in the community. Legally, is there a way to provide that technical
assistance for master planned communities, for our TOD team to look at creating a little bit of
modernization?
Where RTD is providing this sort of free, as I understand it, on some technical assistance aspects, is there
a way to monetize that and to really make sure that RTD is viewed as a service, as a consultancy for folks
who are-- as someone who, in their private life, represents developers, it's not uncommon to get all the way
through permitting and then say, oh, yeah, I would like a bus stop, too, as I'm sure it's all too familiar for
some folks on our team. Is there a way to be proactive and offer some sort of technical assistance for
revenue type of program?
DOUG TISDALE: I like that. Thank you. That's good thinking. And that's what we're talking about through
this whole process is thinking outside the box, looking at things that we may not have done before, and to
see whether they might be good ideas. In the first instance, every idea is just an idea. And we just want

them. Then we will go through the sifting process of determining, what are practical ideas? What are good
ideas? What are questionable ideas and so forth?
Other comments at this time from any committee member or any Director relative to this second discussion
item on the Board Retreat report? He paused sufficiently to allow people to raise their hands. And Vice
Chair Davidson has done. So Mr. Vice Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. I wanted to see if anyone else had any comments. But not
hearing any further comments, what I would say is, unless there's any strong objection to this, I'm more
than happy to engage with, as I said, the Chair of this committee, Chair Doug Tisdale, or CFO Doug
MacLeod, the Chair of the Board, Chair Guissinger, and CEO and General Manager Johnson to chart some
next steps to put together how we can actually make this a formal effort and where it fits in terms of priorities
in time. So if that's OK with everybody, I'm happy to do so.
And what I would say right along the lines of what you said, Mr. Chair, which is, all ideas are welcome. And
if anybody has anything-- Director Dishell, I took some notes there-- please feel free to send them my way.
Please feel free to bring those to me. I'll make sure to collect them as we have some of those discussions.
And I look forward to bringing up a more material idea of how we might proceed having gotten the input of
our CFO, our General Manager, and the two chairs I mentioned. So thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. And I hear no objection, or hesitation, or pause relative to the
outline that you have provided to us. So I think the sense of the committee as the Chair reads it is that we
will continue forward in that manner. And hopefully, we'll keep this moving forward so that we actually can
come up with some results within the next six to 9 months as we look at this and start coming up with
proposals.
Any further discussion on that just before we let this topic go? Hearing none-- then at this point in time, I
will ask, are there any other matters that any Director wishes to bring up to the Finance and Planning
Committee at this time that has not been on the agenda, any other matters? Please feel free to raise your
hand or look to be recognized.
I see no indication of anyone with any other matters at this time. So I will note for the sake of the record
that the next Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, June the 6th. Now please
note, this is a slight deviation from our standard meeting cadence that we have. And that's done so that the
Directors and staff can attend the APTA Rail Conference in Pittsburgh, which is being held the week of
June 11.
So look for our regular meeting on Tuesday, June 6 in order to make attendance at the APTA Rail
Conference possible. And seeing no other discussion, then for the sake of the record, let me note that this
meeting is adjourned as of 6:29 PM Mountain Daylight Time on this Tuesday, May 9, 2023. Thank you all
very much for your attendance. And Thank you, all Directors, for your participation. And staff, thank you for
your great work. We'll see you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you to you.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Thanks, bye.

