Aug 13 2019
Operations & Customer Service Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KATE WILLIAMS: Bear with us one moment, when we've resolved our technological user
difficulties. Good evening. Welcome to the Operations and Customer Service Committee
meeting. Let it be noted that we're starting this meeting at eight minutes to 8:00, 7:52.
Everybody's here? Are we all back? OK.
Director Folska, are you still on the line with us?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. We'll try and remember to include you in the
discussions. OK, what do we have first? We were already called to order. We don't have any
recommended actions tonight. We have first our January 2020 service proposal. I think Michael
Ford and Jessie Carter are at the table. Gentlemen, feel free.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, Michael Ford, COO. And we have a highlight of our proposals for 2020
January of service changes. And I'm going to yield over to Jessie to have him give you an
update, or kind of a summation of what we're proposing for 2020 January.
JESSIE CARTER: Thanks, Michael. It's Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling, and I will be brief. I'll make sure I am on this one. This is relatively a small service
change proposal with a cost of about $383,000. However, there are two notable changes that are
in here, and they both are as a result of grant funding ending.
So the first is the Route 62. It's proposed that the Route 62 be canceled after its full run of a
CMAQ grant. The Route 62 currently does not perform at the level that we would expect for a
suburban route. And also, the other service change would be the Route LD. And looking at the
way the midday service on the Route LD currently performs, we are recommending that that
service be returned to the level that it was prior to the grant funding.
However, on both of these proposals, we are also suggesting that additional services be provided
in the place of some elements where those routes did perform. So for example with the Route 62,
we're proposing that in the AM and PM peaks that two trips be added to the Route 65, extend up
to Northfield High where we did see some ridership. The same is true with the midday LD
service. We are proposing that a trip in the AM on the LX be provided between Longmont and
Denver as a result of seeing performance on the LD during that same time period.
So with that, there are a number of other bus stop consolidations and small scheduled changes,
which also include light rail. And with that, I'll open to any questions you may have.

KATE WILLIAMS: Dr. Tisdale, I see you first.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Ordinarily I don't concern myself with
things like changing bus stops, because I figure you've gone through careful analysis and
consideration. But at least for the sake of the record, I have to point out if you turn to page 6,
packet page 6, and you look at the second bus stop listed there, University and Huntwick Lane,
that's the bus stop in front of my house.
[LAUGHTER]
JESSIE CARTER: Well, Chair, I'll have to add that, you know, we have a public process. And
that public process is aimed at getting input. And we accept input from just about anyone.
[LAUGHTER]
The only reason I particularly am concerned is that I know we measure Access-a-Ride eligibility
based upon how close to a bus stop. And at some point, I'm going to need Access-a-Ride.
JESSIE CARTER: Understood. Understood.
DOUG TISDALE: And I know you're going to say, well, you're too far from a bus stop. So I just
thought I'd better speak up now.
JESSIE CARTER: We appreciate a comment.
DOUG TISDALE: Otherwise, people will say, well, you agreed to it.
JESSIE CARTER: Well, a point of clarification. It's not to the bus stop, it's to the bus route. So a
quarter mile off of the bus route, not the bus stop. So you're still eligible.
KATE WILLIAMS: You can go on the app and call an Uber.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that. All right. Well, thank you for the clarification. And for
those of us who are age advantaged, sometimes we need clarifications, and I appreciate that. But
I needed to speak out. I do also note that what you've done is eliminate all bus stops between
Bellevue and Orchard. So it's a full mile run along University there. And I just don't know
whether that's really fair to Greenwood Village, and I'd like to have a consideration, because
South Metro Fire Station 37 is right in between Bellevue and Orchard, and it might make sense
to have one near there.
JESSIE CARTER: Sure.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.

JESSIE CARTER: One of the things that we will make sure that is applied to this report in its
final form will be a map that kind of delineates exactly which stops are eliminated, along with
their ridership. So you'll kind of see our reasoning along those lines.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tis-- thank you, Jessie. Director Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. It's always a pleasure to talk to you, Mr. Carter. I
wanted to ask you again to just reiterate the Route 62, particularly around Northfield High
School and all the kids that are coming from around the district to do that. Can you just kind of
explain that to me again, please?
JESSIE CARTER: Sure. OK, so as you know, the Route 62 provides access between roughly
Commerce City and Central Park Boulevard station. Many students actually access Northfield
High School-- which is a Denver Public high school, but it's a charter high school and doesn't
have yellow bus service. They make an exchange at Central Park Boulevard station to the Route
62 currently. What we're planning on doing is running those two trips in the AM and two trips in
the PM that see greater than seated load ridership. When I say that, they are averaging about 40
boardings per trip.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mal-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Starting in January?
JESSIE CARTER: That would start in January.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Malpiede. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. To follow up on Director Malpiede's question, will you
will be having conversations with the students to see how it impacts students?
JESSIE CARTER: Actually, we have had conversations with the school. That particular school
has been very active in trying to procure transportation from RTD, because they don't get as
much support from DPS. So they have been trying to coordinate with us for a better stop
location, and for some adoption of time changes to their bells. So we'll continue that relationship.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. And can you send to me-- I know you said that the 62 was going to
be restored prior to the grant funding. I couldn't find what that looked like prior to, so maybe you
could send that to me?
JESSIE CARTER: Oh, the Route 62 in its entirety was actually a grant funded route.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, the whole thing.

JESSIE CARTER: The whole thing. It was sponsored by the City of Commerce City. So prior to
that, it didn't exist. So we're planning on doing the elimination.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It won't exist anymore?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: We'll be talking to Collin, you and I?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And then the 15 and the 15 L, can you and I have a conversation about
user experience for the Tamarac/Unita conversation, please?
JESSIE CARTER: Absolutely. And that's another reason why if we could have used an asterisk,
I probably would have suggested we use an asterisk for that particular stop. So what we're going
to do, the reason why you don't see a definite defined stop for that, is because we need to talk
about it a little bit further, and we also want to take it out to the public and see how they feel
about it. Should it be further east or west from one particular location.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. I'm going to get to everybody. I just want to
point out that we all get this packet of information beforehand, and RTD staff is available to all
of us at least 40 hours a week. So it's fine to have these conversations prior to this meeting if you
see something in the packet that is particularly applicable to your district or your riders. You
don't have to wait till now to talk about it. I just want to point that out. Thank you.
Unless we have a full time job like some of us do. OK, that would be Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to comment on the LD. And of course it's not
something I like, the idea of service being reduced, but more to the point, the stakeholders should
be submitting an alternative proposal where they're hoping that there can be a better use of the
proposed resources. So I wanted to leave that open and let you know that that's coming.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you very much. We'll be glad to attach that to the final board
report, as well.
JUDY LUBOW: Excellent. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's cool, Director Lubow. Thank you. Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Williams. And forgive me. I could have asked this earlier,
but I've had a few think other things on my plate as of late. So with regard to the Southwest Plaza
terminal relocation, you said that it's going to be replaced to a location at Long Drive and Bowles
Avenue?

JESSIE CARTER: That's correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: Which is further east?
JESSIE CARTER: That's correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: So there's two parts to my question. One is I actually think that for patrons of
the library down there, they have long been concerned about the distance for students to walk
from Southwest Plaza over to the library after school, and for others. So I think this is good. I
like this.
But my question-- maybe Director Menten could help me on this, because it was before my time- but I seem to recall that there was considerable debate about a relief station for our bus drivers
that was costing over a million dollars. And moving this now about a half a mile away from
Southwest Plaza, is that going to impact this construction, or proposed construction, or whatever
it was?
JESSIE CARTER: Actually, this is as part of that issue. I do not believe the driver relief station
is an issue that's been resolved at this point in time. So we still do have a challenge with that
regard. But I'm looking to Jyotsna to actually provide a little more information on that.
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Good evening, Board of Directors. We have pursued the driver
relief location at the facility at this location for many years. And unfortunately, the retailer Sears
have their own troubles to deal with, and they have not returned our calls. So at this time we are
not pursuing the driver relief station at this particular location.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten, did you want to speak?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. So my understanding was the relief station was going to go on the
east side of Wadsworth. It was going to be over by-- I don't remember the retailer. But it was
going to be going on the east side. So that would be the-JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: Northeast.
NATALIE MENTEN: --northeast corner, transferred over, because there was a Chili's or
something. And Chili's didn't want drivers coming in there anymore. So now you're saying, I'm
sorry, what, the bathrooms not being on the east side?
JYOTSNA VISHWAKARMA: We cannot proceed with the project, because we do not have the
real estate to do it at this point in time.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, then I would like to re-state my comment of what I presented back
whenever that was, three years ago, whatever it was. There is a small little emergency hospital
that's on the east side, south of that intersection on the east side. They have a public restroom,
they're open 24 hours a day. They said they would love to have the bus driver come in. They'll
even have donuts for him--

[LAUGHTER]
--and a restroom. And then we didn't have to invest a quarter million dollars into a bathroom.
JESSIE CARTER: Understood. I tell you what, one of the reasons why we're presenting this for
a January change, we are still in talks of trying to finalize a design for the Longs Peak and
Bowles location. However, we're trying to do that without a huge impact of cost, both from an
operational standpoint, and from a capital cost standpoint. If we can take a look at other
alternatives, we'd be glad to do that at this point in time.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I just did a cold walk in, and they just would be pleased as
punch.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just as a follow up to that, our chief engineer said that the Sears property is
no longer available. But it seems to me that if we're changing a location to the east side a half
mile down, that that's a moot point anyway. So I just know that there was a commitment made
for a relief station for the bus drivers, and just didn't know where that stood. So thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. And right. And that's what we're trying to do is to make sure that
commitment is fulfilled, either at one location or the other.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, personally, I think that the change in the drop off location-- although it
may not be as advantageous for Southwest Plaza merchants-- I think from the perspective of the
library user and some of the other neighborhoods in the area, I think it's good switch. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Sure. I would like to follow up with meeting with you to show you a map of
how we'd like to do this. OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Maybe the drivers could get a quick checkup while they're there.
[LAUGHTER]
Sorry. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. My question is about the 27-46. The street pattern down there is
broken up by the large retail development. So I want to make sure that the stops that are being
considered for discontinuation are the ones that won't affect the people that I've talked to that live
at Yale station. So I'm looking at the one that is just west of Bel Air.
JESSIE CARTER: Right.
JEFF WALKER: Is that the one that's in the 4200 line?
JESSIE CARTER: That's 4200. Right.

JEFF WALKER: And then there's one looks to be a little farther west of that, just before
Colorado, and what I think would be Ash or Albion. And that's the other one that would be-JESSIE CARTER: That's correct.
JEFF WALKER: OK, because the concern that they had is that King Super is right there. And I
want to make sure that that's not the one that is going to disappear. There's one right across the
north side of Yale from the King Super.
JESSIE CARTER: Oh, I see. Yes. And again, we will follow up with maps to make sure that you
understand exactly where the stop is. And I do understand their concern of being able to get to
the closest stop to that King Super.
JEFF WALKER: Yes. OK. OK, so I can so when I get a call tonight I'll be able to answer. OK,
thank you. And I'm sorry, there's one other one on the west side of Claremont, right behind just
to the east of the King Super.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. The Claremont stop is-- you're saying is it impacted by the 27?
JEFF WALKER: I think that's a stop for the 27 and 46.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. And I don't have that listed as one that's impacted. So that one will
remain.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you again, Jessie. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. I have had the opportunity to meet with Mr. Ford on this
matter, and Mr. Carter several times has been very helpful. Just a couple of clarifying questions.
How long has the 62 grant funded route been in existence? Is this a two year program?
JESSIE CARTER: It was a three year plan.
TROY WHITMORE: Three years, OK. And we were hoping to save it from our folks up in that
area, but we're at one, or two, or maybe three riders a day, correct?
JESSIE CARTER: Well, when you look at it per trip, it's in single digits on every trip, except for
the trips that serve Northfield High School. And absent of Northfield High School, it's all single
digits.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah. I just wanted that on the record. It's unfortunate. Have you had any
very recent conversations with the leadership at Commerce City in this regard, like the last
couple of weeks?

JESSIE CARTER: In the last couple of weeks I have not. I do expect to have contact with them
prior to joining in with the public process. So we are in direct contact with Chris Cramer and
Jenny Axmacher on a regular basis with regard to this. They've certainly expressed their concern.
TROY WHITMORE: Several times. All right, that's all. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Dr. Menten, again.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, thank you. Southwest Plaza had been one of the items that I wanted
to speak about originally. And my concern about the plan overall, though, since we got the
bathroom thing out of the way, but the Southwest Plaza is part of it, is the amount of hours. So
what we have in the beginning of this document is we say that this is an increase of 383,000, and
a reduction of two full-time employees.
But unfortunately, the way this calculator works on this thing, and I'm putting these numbers
together, that we've got a substantial amount of more hours.
JESSIE CARTER: We do.
NATALIE MENTEN: Do you have the numbers for the hours?
JESSIE CARTER: Sure. When you look at the Southwest Plaza change, we have to look at
Saturday, Sunday hours where it actually changes. And that's 12 hours. Also keep in mind that
we're not saving dollars or hours from previously grant funded services that are eliminated. So
for example, with the Route 62 going away, I can't claim a savings in dollars for it, because it
was grant funded.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So where I'm going-- just let me stop-- is more of a load on the
employees. That's what I'm going after. I want to know how many more hours are we adding.
And so maybe for the future, but if you can answer this right now, I see the dollar impact. I see
the FTE impact. But for what I'm looking at is the gross result of less hours here, more here. Do
you have that?
JESSIE CARTER: OK. So I'll lay it out this way. So with the Route 62, total number of annual
hours would have been 4,216 if we were adopting it. However, instead of adopting that, we are
implementing an extension on the 65, which cost-- and forgive me, I don't have my glasses-1,275 hours. So the difference between those two is what we actually save on the 62.
On the LD, the example would be LD hours would have been annualized 3,845. Instead on the
LX we are providing 765.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I did a calculation and I've come up with a number of 3,999. But I
don't know that I calculated right. So is that potentially the amount of additional hours?

JESSIE CARTER: Right. But there are a number of other changes that have hours aside from
those two changes. So what I can do is provide you with the spreadsheet that does a full
calculation for the service changes.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm going to suggest that you guys do this-NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Here's why I say it, because there was an employee who happens to
be our Chief Steward who spoke to all of us asking us, are we willing to stick up for bus drivers?
So I think this is an important conversation in the public. I'm sorry, Chair Kate Williams, but
that's why I'm bringing it up, is that if we are adding here, adding there, and yes subtracting in a
couple of spots, then I'm willing to say for employees who are stretched, and when their
leadership is saying they're stretched, and we know it, then for me, personally, I'm willing to say
to the public, sorry, can't do everything you need. And that's what I'm trying to get out right now
is knowing what is that net result on the added hours to the load.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. And I will provide that to you. Because really, when I look at this, the
decrease in full-time employees is exactly what we were trying to do, and that is reduce the
burden that we currently have on our system.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska, are you with us, and do you have a question?
OK. Hearing nothing, I see Director Lewis, I think, has a question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Actually a very similar question as Director Menten. But I
wanted to know if you could tell me, as a new board member, as you're looking at changes to the
system wide, is that all a part of the system optimization?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. We realize where we stand right now in terms of the number of
operators that we have, and the operator shortage. So of course, when we consider things that
need to be maintained, fixed, and we're looking at the expansions that we have, we want to make
sure that those costs are in line with what we can do, our capability as far as human resource.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, that's helpful. So is the goal of that, like as you all are looking at this
data and making recommendations, to be able to solve for the operators shortage at this point?
JESSIE CARTER: As best we can.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. So I assume that, I just wanted to clarify. It's also why I didn't give
you a hard time about the 62, because I heard from some operators, and I'm sensitive to a six day
workweek. So I just wanted to make sure that I was understanding that correctly. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. I'd just like to pull a famous Bruce Abel quote
back out of the closet, and point out that, in fact, RTD is in the business of moving people, not

moving equipment, and that optimization is always what we're about, to give the best service we
can with the least strain on staff. OK, I see nobody else having questions on this.
Thank you, Mr. Carter, as always. And I think we have Mr. Worthen is going to come up now
and join us. You know, you guys could all just come on up here now. Come on, Dave. Come up
and sit down in the spotlight. OK, Mr. Ford, take it away.
MICHAEL FORD: I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Worthen, and then after that we'll turn it over
to the rail side. Oh, we've got another mic there.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Director Williams. There is a full report inside the packet, and
unless you'd like for me to review it, I'm happy to just answer questions and move forward.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think they'd be a good plan. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a question,
press the little speak button. And if nobody has any questions on this presentation, we're going to
move on. OK, good job, Fred.
[LAUGHTER]
OK. And, I'm sorry, Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Just very briefly, I did want to point out that we had the opportunity to speak
with someone from human relations last week when we had a lunch with the executive
committee, and people who were very generous and committed in terms of their support of our
pledge campaign that we did just recently. And the individual from HR confirmed we've been
hiring a lot of operators. We really have. We have had some turnover, and there are lots of
separate reasons for that, and we understand.
But given the fact that we have this report as found at packet page 9, and so forth, I don't want
people to have the impression that we haven't been out there hiring. We are beating the bushes
and doing our best to hire operators. And some people work out, and there are issues that arise
with others. They may not like the working circumstances, other things can obtain when that
happens. But this is an opportunity to say, we are working hard, we are hiring, and we're doing
our darndest to get out there and continue to get people to meet these vacancies so that we can
provide optimal service. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. OK, having no questions on that, we're going to move on. I
think the next update then is rail ops. Is that where we are? Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: It is. Packet-KATE WILLIAMS: And we have a packet presentation here. Are there questions based on the
information that you've had for some days now? Oh, there we go. Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Just a comment. Since we're looking at the mandates, the six day work week,
it was really helpful, I think, to have the change from 2018 to 2019 presented for rail. And I
would love to see it for the other office, as well. So just thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Great comment. OK, gentlemen, do you have anything else that
you would like to tell us unsolicited?
DAVE JENSEN: No ma'am.
MICHAEL FORD: No ma'am.
[LAUGHTER]
KATE WILLIAMS: Good thing. OK. I think our next thing we'll have is an update on the N
Line, and then we'll probably the switch in personnel. Mr. Miller, you going to join us?
ALLEN MILLER: Good evening, Chair Williams. This is Allen Miller, Deputy Assistant
General Manager for Commuter Rail. And I'm going to keep in keeping and try to keep this as
quick and painless as possible, as well. And hopefully I can figure this out. I'm pointing right up,
Barbara, and I was wondering, can you get it on your side? Try getting it through there.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Yeah, there we go.
[LAUGHTER]
While we're figuring this out, I will start with the safety moment. It's the next slide.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Is it on? Or did they turn it-ALLEN MILLER: One past. There we go, perfect. This for me is a vital piece of this slide
presentation. When we talk about complacency in the public, this is where we want as much
outreach, education, and enforcement as possible. Railroad safety-- and I'm going to read this
quote because it's been with me for 40 years. Railroad safety cannot be secured by equipment
alone. It is the primary result of care and discipline through means of outreach, education, and
enforcement.
Next slide. Just briefly, next slide is the major milestones that we've gone through. Most
importantly, our rescue vehicle is under assembly as of July. August, we have CPUC, Colorado
Public Utilities Commission, working on pre-certification of our at grade crossings. Next slide.
With our FTEs, our full time hires, our salaried positions are at 50%, and our represented
positions are now at 30%, which is in keeping with our schedule. Next slide. With regard to the
ATU memorandum of understanding, we have now signed. It is in place, and we are currently

working on a variety of things with FRA regulation, job descriptions, seniority rights, et cetera.
Next slide.
This is a slide that we continue to provide. This is where we're at with our FRA new starts
matrix, and the only thing that I would add to this is that we have submitted our positive train
control implementation plan, which is not on this slide. And we are issuing our positive train
control waiver with FRA as we speak. The N Line rescue train, again, that's just a standard slide.
This one for me is important, as well. We recently had a legal tour with the Burlington Northern
Santa Fe. It went very well. We continue to cooperate very well with Burlington Northern, and I
thank Ralph for setting that particular meeting up. I think it went well. Next slide.
This is important, because we are currently working on our passenger train emergency
preparedness plan, which we also refer to as the PTEP. We have given our first security team
classes with our partners in North Glen, Thorton, Commerce City AdCo, and City and County of
Denver. The training went well. The first round tabletop that we were going to start discussing
for PTEP drill on the N Line will occur in September for the tabletop, and we anticipate October
being our drill. That will basically probably occur somewhere around 124th station.
Next slide. Yeah. One too far. Technology. Yup, it's actually another. It's the end line community
safety awareness that I'm looking for. N Line Project Update. Right there is good. This slide for
me is critical and important, because it goes back to the second slide on safety.
The end line project continues to reach out to our communities surrounding the N Line. We've
engaged over 1,300 people at different community events. We continue to host elected officials
meetings. We continue to blast out and issue flyers, articles, and other social media, and
particularly going out to Adams 12, Adams 14, our bus companies, to talk about how the grade
crossings will impact them going forward, as well as reaching out to our children specifically. It's
important here, because as a member of Operation Lifesaver, if we can get our children young,
they tend to educate our parents and actually get us a lot more safety and bang for the dollar.
The N Line update, we are in punch lists phase, and finishing work at all stations.
Communications work is taking place at Commerce City. 72nd is all the way to Eastlake station
at 124th. If you happen to drive down Colorado Boulevard, you will see the 104 Colorado Park
and Ride. The high rise parking is nearing completion. We are currently working on the elevators
and the crosswalks there.
The last slide. We're talking about our fixed routes being changed with the N Line bus operations
integration for the end line coming in 2020. This one for me, I just want to shout out to Jessie
and to service planning in general. It is amazing to me that they have been able to reroute buses
and make these changes with a revenue neutral impact to the budget. And I'll take questions at
this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Vice Chair Catlin?

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Williams. Just two things. Out of necessity, not necessarily
desire, I've had to travel north along Colorado Boulevard for the past week. But one nice
byproduct of that trip, which is 50 miles one way from me, was that I got to see progress on the
end line, particularly the parking garage. So that's been really impressive. And I just wanted to
say it was really exciting to see that. And I was really regretting the fact that the N Line wasn't
already open, because it would have made my commute far easier from Southwest Denver.
So I have a new appreciation for my fellow board members to the north. The other thing that I
wanted to mention was that I had the privilege of attending the rail rodeo on Saturday. It was a
great event, Dave. But our second place overall winner, a young man, I congratulated him, and
he said, well, I don't know if I'll get to go to San Francisco because I'm changing divisions. And I
said, oh, where are you going? And he said to commuter rail.
And that got me thinking. How many people are we really going to see transfer from light rail to
commuter rail, and how will that impact some of our light rail vacancies and hiring? I just was
curious.
ALLEN MILLER: I would put two points to this. Number one, yes, within the union there's a lot
of excitement about commuter rail, because it is the last leg of any multi-modal agency, and so
they're very excited about this. We have impact to the agency of approximately 19 employees
that will look to move to commuter rail within the next 50 days. And so I would say that once we
reach stasis and we reach stabilization, that you won't see these impacts as strongly.
We anticipated these impacts hitting us in the fourth quarter, which is on target with where we're
at, as well. And so working with light rail and bus ops as well, we try to find the most productive
release states for those employees so that they can be back-filled accordingly. Dave, I'll let you
add anything else that you wanted to add to that.
DAVE JENSEN: I think the only thing I might add to that is the plan would be to stage the hiring
and the training so the impact is at least reduced and slowed for the different classifications that
might be transferring over to commuter rail.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just a follow up, I was very impressed by learning more about the training
process for light rail operators, and the nine week process that they went through. And also
having witnessed a couple of you trying to drive the trains, and some more successfully than
others as Director Mihalik, it's very complicated. And I know that it takes a lot of training. So I
was really impressed by that, and just kudos to you all in your operations. Thanks.
DAVE JENSEN: I was going to look for the appropriate opportunity to say that we are hiring.
And if one of you would be interested part time, Director Mihalik, I think we could probably use
all the help we could get.
[LAUGHTER]
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you guys. Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. How many at grade crossings are there on the N Line?
ALLEN MILLER: On the N Line we have five at grade that are public, and one that's private,
which is Riverside, and we've recently gotten to a point of abolishing that. And then we have a
second private crossing at 72nd.
BOB BROOM: OK, and then I would assume the plan is that when you open up revenue service
we're not going to have flaggers at all those intersections.
ALLEN MILLER: That's correct, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Great presentation. I know we have some outreach meetings
coming up soon for the route changes because of the N Line, and I appreciate that. I'll try and get
at least one of those. But there's a couple of communities that have fairly significant change to
their routes, and we don't have a meeting scheduled there. I'm not sure about Commerce City, but
Brighton has some changes, and some of them, I think, are enhancements, which is awesome, but
how are we-- and maybe this is a question-- how are we outreaching to, perhaps, Adams County,
and Brighton, and Commerce City in regard to those fixed route changes since we won't be there
in person?
MICHAEL FORD: What I can tell you, I know we have at least four meetings starting the 19th
of August. I know we're working with communications to be more robust in the presentations. If
there are other places we need to visit or communicate with, we're happy to make adjustments or
flex our schedule to make that happen.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. I'll see if that's necessary and get back to one of you then. I
appreciate it. Good job, that's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, Thank you, Madam Chair.
[LAUGHTER]
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: It's OK. Sorry. I'm looking at the N Line FTE position status, and this is
something that's always kind of in the back of my mind, is making sure we have enough people
to operate the line when we open. It looks like you say we're on schedule, but it looks like about
68% still vacant of these positions. Is that accurate, and is that actual--

ALLEN MILLER: It would be accurate, Director Buzek, to say that we're at a 68% vacancy. We
anticipate in the fourth quarter closing that gap to 30%, and by the end of December meeting our
quotas.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. And on the chart you have three different subheadings under each salary
represented. And it says total positions, total hired, and total in process. What does the total in
process mean?
ALLEN MILLER: Total in process means that we have gone through applications, we have
actually offered jobs, and we're waiting for those job positions to be accepted.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So in the represented, and there's 50. So that brings you to your total
position, but none in the salaried, is that right?
ALLEN MILLER: No, salaried actually is at 50%. There are 25 salaried at the top. I think what
you're looking at is the bottom, which are transit security officers. That's contracted services. We
haven't filled those positions yet. We're still working with Allied Universal for the TSO contract.
VINCE BUZEK: I guess what I'm saying, I'm under salaried the total in process is blank. Under
represented the total in process is 50. So does that mean that under salaried there are no
applicants and no job offers pending? Is that right?
ALLEN MILLER: One moment, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Just trying to understand the graph.
ALLEN MILLER: Total in process, actually, there's a blank there, and that's an error on our part.
We actually have 10 in process at this time. We have 25 hired to date for 49 total positions.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, great. Thanks, appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good call. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just want to say I am delighted to
hear this report. I think the progress you are making is terrific. And this entire Board-- all of us-are looking forward to the opening of the N Line in January or February of next year. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Folska, are you there with us, and do you have
anything to say? OK. Hearing nothing again. We'll go on to Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just have a comment about the outreach. I find that
when you have route changes of this magnitude it's helpful to ride the buses to give the
information to folks. So just a suggestion.

ALLEN MILLER: Thank you, Director Lewis. We will take that into account. Seeing no one
further, thank you, Allen. I think we'll go on to the next item, which is the 61. Thank you,
gentlemen. 61 you have the update, Mr. Abel, once again.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and actually not a 61 AV update, but a 61 AV
closeout. Hopefully you have all noticed that in your board packet was the final report for the 61
AV project, which everyone is aware wrapped up at the end of July-- actually, August 2nd,
because it didn't make sense to close a project out on a Wednesday. We have had several updates
regarding this project through the course of the project.
You will notice that the final report actually recaps many of the items that we have discussed in
the updates that have taken place along the line. Really, I think the additional issues that I would
bring up for you since our last update, we spoke initially about the fact that really the issues that
were affecting the service availability, our primary objective in this study was to see what does
the AV vehicle do in a transit application. Our observations were that in weather events of snow,
heavy rain, steam, the sensors read those as obstructions that caused the vehicle to not be able to
operate.
Since our last update, we have entered the warm weather, and it's not an issue with the AV
technology, but really with the electric vehicle technology. With the warm weather and the AC
being active, the vehicle was not able to perform its scheduled eight hour day. It needed to be
recharged at about the six hour mark, and so we put a second vehicle into service. But that,
again, was the only other metric that we had not previously discussed here.
So I would say that the outcome that I think we were successful in terms of finding out what we
wanted to find out. We were able to work with all of the stakeholders to successfully align our
interests and get the project off the ground. We were able to navigate all of the federal, state, and
local processes to put the first AV on a public roadway in the state of Colorado. We were able to,
from our perspective, see what the AV vehicle could do and could not do.
So I think that the conclusion at this particular point in time would be that the current status of
AV technology probably does not provide the level of vehicular availability that's necessary for a
shuttle vehicle to be used in transit service where we have a customer commitment that needs to
be met. However, we are seeing, for example, in our case working with Easy Mile, that they are
as they bring out subsequent generations, as they call them, Gen 2 and Gen 3 vehicles, they have
been working on addressing the issues that were identified through the course of our
demonstration project. So currently, probably not ready for prime time, but I think it's in our
interest to continue to monitor the status of improvements into AV technology.
Towards that end, we have submitted a grant application to DOT for an additional demonstration
project in conjunction with the University of Denver, transportation solutions, the TMA that
serves the University of Denver, the city and county of Denver, ourselves, and it also not only
would be to demonstrate the newest generation of AV vehicle, but also-- a new jargon term for
y'all-- V2I, vehicle to infrastructure connected vehicle technology, where we talk about actually
integrating the autonomous vehicle into the traffic light network technologically. And so we've
spoken with all of the parties about integrating a V2I or traffic signal integration.

We have not heard back from DOT on our grant application, despite the fact that we were hear
from them in the spring. What we have been advised through a number of channels is that there
is an active conversation going on in Washington DC that has held up announcement of any AV
grant application. DOT has advised us all that there will be no waivers. All AV vehicles must
meet Buy America, and at the current time, there are no Buy America compliant AV vehicles.
So they recognize that the right hand is saying we want to promote AV demonstrations, while the
left hand is saying, we're providing a regulatory environment that virtually makes this
impossible. So there are a lot of spirited conversations going on, as we speak, up in Washington
DC, and hopefully we will hear the outcome of those conversations soon, and hopefully the
outcome might be that we're advised that the DU demonstration will go forward, although that
certainly isn't anything we're banking on at this point in time.
But if there are any questions, I do apologize that the statistics that are included in your board
packet are pretty small. I print them out on legal landscape. But if there are any questions, I'll be
more than glad to answer them.
KATE WILLIAMS: Directors? Anybody have any questions or comments? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have a question about the grant funding. How long is it for, if you
were to receive it?
BRUCE ABEL: Well, the 61 AV project did not have any grant funding. It was all funded-SHONTEL LEWIS: For DU. I'm sorry, I should have been-BRUCE ABEL: For DU, we applied for a year. The dollar amount would correspond to a year's
operation.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And then what?
BRUCE ABEL: At which point in time, well, it would actually take two years from beginning to
end, because there was one year of the advanced preparation work, and one year of operation, at
the end of which we would need to make a determination as to how we wish to proceed.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I would hope we would have that in place before we decided to
proceed. I know we don't have the grant funding, and I'm asking because we just recently talked
about the 62, and that was grant funding, and then it was just gone and disappeared. And I'd
imagine that the students at DU, and the staff at DU, might be interested in knowing what our
plan is beyond that.
BRUCE ABEL: Oh, that's a great point. The conversations that we've had with DU is they had
and have a contract in place with a shuttle operator to connect DU to the DU light rail station.
This is a demonstration as to how the AV vehicle could replace the rubber tire shuttle operation,
at the end of which demonstration we would make a decision as to are we in a position to move
forward with an AV technology, or return to the rubber tired shuttle.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I think that most of us know that DU has a history of having
pilots come and go there with some of the transportation options that have been here. And I think
that it's amazing that we are moving already from just AV to CVs, and V2I.
BRUCE ABEL: V2I, vehicle to infrastructure.
KATE WILLIAMS: V2I. You know, I love this job. Pay is good, and I learn stuff all the time.
OK. Director Broom.
Thank you, Chair. What changes can we look forward to seeing in a Gen 3 Bruce Abel?
[LAUGHTER]
BRUCE ABEL: I'm still working on Gen 2, but hopefully we'll see Gen 3.
DAVE GENOVA: We're working on his development as you know-[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't know. Is he connected? OK. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, I think the mere fact that we've engaged
in this project is a success in and of itself, regardless of the outcomes. Because it was a learning
process, and we learned a lot. And to the extent that we can pursue any more of these types of
projects with autonomous vehicles, I'm all in favor of moving forward with that. Because this is
going to happen sooner or later, so we need to be right on the cutting edge. Thanks for all your
work.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, seeing nobody else, I have no other matters. Gentleman, Mr. Ford, any
other matters?
MICHAEL FORD: No other matters.
KATE WILLIAMS: I believe that the Chair-- oh, there are all kinds of people up there. OK, I'm
going to take this in some order of seniority. General Manager, do you have anything in other
matters?
DAVE GENOVA: I do not, Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Chair Tisdale, you have something in other matters? I'm going
to get to the rest of these.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Madam Chair, if I may. Over the Thursday and Friday of last week we
sent you three emails regarding the subject of next week's board meeting, August 20. So for the

reasons expressed therein and described to you, we said we would ask for a consensus this
evening as to whether the board wished to have a meeting next Tuesday, August 20 or not. So
we're looking for what I would call a consensus. Sometimes we'd call this for a head nod poll.
But having expressed everything three separate times in emails to you, I'd like to get a sense of
who would like to have a board meeting next week.
KATE WILLIAMS: Can I point out that we do not have any action items that need to be voted
on? And that's underlying this situation.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I understand. And the board, having received three separate emails where
I said that, I think understands that. That's the point I'd like to make. So the question is, who
would like to have a board meeting? Who would like to proceed with a board meeting next
week? Please indicate. OK, who would not like to have a board meeting next week? OK.
Can I ask a question?
DOUG TISDALE: Of course you may-KATE WILLIAMS: We have two people waiting-DOUG TISDALE: --if the Chair will acknowledge you.
KATE WILLIAMS: We have two people waiting to speak. Director Lewis just asked first, and
then I'll see you, Director Menten. We'll raise you one.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So one of the things that was contained within that email was that it was
public comment, and because we don't have a plan to reschedule public comment, I don't feel
comfortable not having a board meeting and having the public be able to participate on the one
day of the month that they have been allowed to.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I just wanted to ask, though I understand we don't vote on the ad hoc
committee, does that ad hoc committee get added into the committee charters even as an ad hoc,
and therefore we're amending those and need to vote on that?
DOUG TISDALE: No. Actually ad hoc committees are created by the Chair, and are subject to
renewal each year by whoever serves as Chair. So we don't burden the bylaws with those. But we
do as a practice, because the board office has suggested this, as a practice we give ourselves a
statement of, what are the parameters? Because otherwise it's somewhat loose. But the issue that
we're talking about is the meeting next week.
And I just wanted to say that I very much respect and appreciate the comments of Director Lewis
as expressed, but I see an overwhelming consensus for canceling the board meeting next week.

And so let me give this formal announcement now that we will not have a full board meeting on
Tuesday, August 20. There will be no full board meeting on that date. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for your patience, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Last night I attended the scooter debate that was hosted by Streetsblog.
It was really informative, lively, fun discussion. Unfortunately, there it under a cloud of sadness,
because of a recent fatality from somebody riding a scooter. But aside from that, it was a great
discussion about how scooters fit into this mobility and transportation transit network, how they
interact with what we do, providing that spine, and they could be considered like the ventricles, I
guess, coming off of the spine. It seems like there's room for everybody in what we all do.
I learned that there is somewhat typical limits of what folks will ride a scooter, to do one to two
miles for a scooter, and two to five for a bicycle, and maybe longer for what we do. So I think
that like I said before, I think there's room for everybody in this arena where we work. Anyway,
so I just wanted to mention that. And like I said, I had a chance to speak with somebody from
Lyft, and they are extremely interested in working with us. There are business considerations that
they have that we have. So things haven't gelled yet, but I know that they're interested, and I
think our people are interested, I know the public is interested.
So that's all. I just wanted to share that with you all. Oh, and I think Mr. Van Doren would be
OK if I mentioned that he was one of the panelists, and he spoke eloquently about his
experiences with RTD. And he also has some very nice words about RTD and our system-everybody's system. Not just our system, but everybody's system. So that's it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to add to that, for the record, anybody who doesn't know that Lyft,
in addition to being a ride share company, is a scooter company. So they have multiple-- and
bikes, and nice e-bikes. And so they have multiple investments, as do we. I believe you're next,
Director
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Williams. I also attended the scooter debate
last night. I'd like to thank Streetblogs for bringing it forward. It is a very, very important
discussion to have as a community, and as our district. Unfortunately, the young man who was
killed on the scooter happened a block away from my house, so I feel very personal about this. I
will tell you, as an RTD board director, I've had some really serious concerns about the scooters.
I've been on the 16th Street mall in the middle the day where the bus has been cut off by people
on scooters wearing headphones and not even knowing that they could have been killed.
And so I think that there needs to be a lot of discussion amongst everybody to talk about safety,
and you know, what are these being done for. And it's very true, last night you either love them
or you hate them. And there is room for everybody to sit down and have a discussion about this.
Where do they ride, how fast do they ride? In my neighborhood they ride at night after the bars
close on the sidewalks, and it gets to be a little crazy, and where they park can be really insane,
as well.

But I think this is a whole new kind of first, last mile component. People are having fun on them.
But I think that these kinds of debates in the community are really invaluable, to really sit down
and talk about it. This is going to be serious discussion with serious policies. And in my world,
the big issue is around liability. Like, if someone gets hurt, who's liable for that? So I have all
these questions about it, but I really do want to thank Street Smarts for bringing this out, because
I think we really needed to have that conversation. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that feedback, and Director Walker, as well. Seeing nobody
else on the board, if we wrap up here, I can tell you that the next meeting of this committee will
be September 17. And I believe that we're adjourned.
[TAPPING GAVEL]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

