## I. Planning and Development Committee

Chaired by Bill James

### A. Call to Order

Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 8:02 p.m.

Director Deadwyler had dropped off the telephone conference call.

Staff Present:              Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Jeff Becker, Rick Clarke, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Andy Mutz, Paula Perdue, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Tina Jaquez, Chuck Culig, Mitch Kuharski, Zamy Silva, Genevieve Hutchison, Pat McLaughlin, Ana Mostaccero

Others Present:               Jenifer Brandeberry, Michelle Brier, Adrina Gibson, Stan Gronek, Mayor Jim Gunning, Tykus Holloway, Lizzie Kemp, David Lewis, Julie McKenna, Tam Nguien, Roger Sherman, Herman Stockinger – CDOT, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Jyotsne Vishwakame

#### 1. Donation of Vintage Rail

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to donate vintage rail, tie plates and wooden ties for restoration purposes to Como Depot.

Motion:              Director Bagley made the motion to move this item to the full Board at the August 20, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:              Mitch Kuharski, Construction Project Manager, stated that RTD was contacted in the summer of 2012 by Como Depot regarding the abandoned rail historically called the Bucktail right-of-way.  The area in question, located at Evans and East Asbury Drive, has vintage narrow-gage rail that RTD would never utilize on our current alignment.  A request for expression of interest and information (REFII) was submitted for advertisement in the Denver Post on May 25, 2013 and was also sent to 15 prospective vendors.  The advertisement closed June 12, 2013. Como Depot and SRC Industries responded.  SRC Industries was deemed non responsive.

The scope of work involves providing insurance for RTD, obtaining permits from the City and County of Denver, removing the vintage rail, tie plates, and wooden ties, and landscaping impacted areas.  RTD will not cover any of the expenses.

Director Lasater shared that he is very pro-history preservation; however, the comment was made that we will not use the rail.  He noted during the East line tour the Directors were informed that the rail line is being built from recycled steel but he did not see a consideration for the salvage rights.  Mitch Kuharski explained that it would be cost prohibitive. It is very labor intensive to remove spikes, pay transportation fees to take them to Pueblo, etc.

Director Walker asked if this was the area between Evans and Asbury just east of I-25.  Mitch Kuharski replied it is just off of I-25 and Evans.

Director Daly commented that he is amazed it is still there but it is going to a good resting place in historic Como, Colorado.

Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED to the Unanimous Consent Agenda.

#### 1. Real Property and TOD White Paper Update

Bill Sirois, Senior Manager and Susan Altes, Manager reviewed a PowerPoint presentation with the Board that is available in August 6, 2013 Planning and Development Agenda Packet.  Bill Sirois reminded the Board that they presented an original white paper in May and had discussions about the direction this outline would take.  He commented that the goal is to come back to the Board before end of year regarding the 4 dispositions outlined in the presentation and next year with the policy changes and lesson learned.

Director Bagley asked when the appraisals were done on the 4 pilot program properties.  Susan explained 3 of the appraisals were done within the last 60 days.  The other one was done approximately 3 years ago as part of the West corridor and will need to be updated for FTA purposes.  Director Bagley then asked if there were appraisals on the other 3 properties that were done previously.  Susan answered yes.  Director Bagley questioned how those appraisals compared today versus prior.  Susan explained that Smokey Hill (cut off at Havana & Alameda) and 104th & Riverdale show an increase.  However, Fort Lupton has no previous appraisal and she expects Zuni will have no major difference in value.

Director Hoy stated that he is particularly interested in the 104th & Riverdale property as the previous owner is always in contact with him.  He owns the adjacent property and has expressed interest in moving forward with RTD.  Director Hoy expressed thanks for all the work done by staff and their unique thinking.  He believes as we progress RTD will be stronger.

Director Folska asked if the property at 104th & Riverdale falls within the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS).  Susan answered that it does not.

Director Menten noted that the Fort Lupton property looks like it is within  District K, which is north of Baseline Road and to the east of US85. She wonders if that is within the RTD District.  Susan responded that neither one of those properties are within the RTD District.  Director Menten further asked if the boxes within that red area on the map included in the Packet are parcels.  Susan responded that she doesn’t think those boxes have anything to do with parcels.

Director Sisk asked if it would be possible to do a land lease on these excess properties.  Susan stated that it could be done.  Director Sisk further explained that this would be a way to capture value, maintain control over the property, and have an income stream. General Manager Washington reminded the Board when the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) was presented to them it talked about excess property.  If we sell excess or surplus property we would move those funds to the FISA.  This was one of the Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM)/FISA account items that was brought to the Board.  Staff is moving ahead aggressively with this process.

Committee Chair James expressed that he is pleased with the overall process.  He thinks it is very interesting to hear General Manager Washington say that staff is moving forward aggressively as that is another buzzword from the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force.  Committee Chair James likes the pilot idea as an opportunity to create lessons learned that can enhance the process for the other portfolio properties; there are many other properties we will need to acquire as we build the system so doing this project in a deliberate manner and learning is a great idea.  Thank you very much for your help.

##### a. TODRealPropPilotAccess_Rev

##### b. Real Property White PaperFINALv3

##### c. RPWhitePaperExhibitA

##### d. Resolution No. 10 Full Text

##### e. Exhibit B-C VACANT and UNDER UTILIZED RTD OWNED PROPERTIES 05-08-2013 WITH & WITHOUT FED FUNDING

#### 2. Colfax Corridor Connections & 15/15L Transit Priority Study

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager and Genevieve Hutchison, Senior Transportation Planner reviewed a PowerPoint presentation with the Board that is available in the August 6, 2013 Planning and Development Agenda Packet.  Genevieve Hutchison emphasized that there are two different projects being implemented on the East Colfax Corridor.  One is led by the City and County of Denver and one by RTD.  One is a long-term study looking out to 2025 and one is the next 2-3 years.  One has money for implementation and one does not. Director Bagley expressed his enthusiasm to see both of these projects going on.  Director Bagley asked for information on the coordination between RTD and Denver.  Genevieve Hutchinson explained that both project management teams are coordinating very closely with each other.

Director Folska asked if we are at capacity for ridership on the 15 and the 15L.  Jeff Becker answered that we have been adding buses to both the 15 and the 15L to increase capacity and ridership.  Director Folska further asked how much more capacity is available on that route.  Jeff Becker explained that you can continue to add more buses but by improving the performance of the buses you can acquire more capacity without adding buses.  Director Folska would like to learn more and will be setting up a meeting for further discussion.

Director Tobiassen asked if the new articulated buses will be running on the Colfax Corridor.  Jeff Becker stated that they would run on the 15L.  Director Tobiassen further asked if the dwell times will be improved because the buses are low floor buses.  Jeff Becker explained that it does help the dwell times by encouraging people to get off and on.  Director Tobiassen explained that the buses run so frequently they get stacked and there is room for improvement.  Jeff Becker elaborated that very frequent routes can cause bunching of buses but streamlining priorities and investment is helping lead the way to improvements.

Director Walker asked if the bicycle movement is part of the 15 and 15L transit priority study.  Jeff Becker replied no.  Director Walker further asked if bicyclists are being factored in the travel times.  Jeff Becker responded that any time there is mixed traffic it usually slows things down.  He stated that staff is looking at bypass lanes and things like that.  Genevieve Hutchinson elaborated that staff is not considering putting a bike lane on Colfax.

Director Folska asked how many articulated buses have been purchased.  GM Washington explained they will bring that action to the Board next week for approval to purchase nearly 100 over a 3 year period.

##### a. RTD Board Aug 2013 Colfax Projects update_jde

### D. Other Matters

Chair Anderson and Director Bagley expressed thanks to the Board office for providing the new sound system.

Director Menten asked what committee has the 16th Street Mall renovations, specifically the pavers.  GM Washington replied that usually falls under the Planning and Development Committee.  Director Menten stated that she would be preparing some questions related to this for next month’s meeting.

Committee Chair James suggested watching the morning news August 7, 2013 for the Garden Block on the 16th Street Mall sponsored by the Downtown Denver Partnership using planters from the Denver Botanic Gardens.

### F. Adjourn

Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 8:40 p.m.