2025-02-06
Operations, Safety and Security Committee
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, everyone. Our Thursday, February 6, Operation Security and Safety
Meeting will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:05 PM. I would respectfully ask anyone
attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with unofficial meeting minutes, excuse
me, of the meetings will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting,
we are providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would
like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
to access a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll for committee members. Director Buzek. Director
Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Co-chair Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I'm here.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Wonderful. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I am available, or here.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Perfect. Director Paglieri
BRETT PAGLIERI: Here.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, sir. And I am Chair Rushca, and I am present. Of note, Director Buzek
was excused for today's meeting, as this is a special meeting held outside of our regular time.
So for the record, I see we have six out of seven Directors present. Mr. Kroll, can you advise if we have
staff available to attend with us today? I know there were some IT issues.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Committee Chair Ruscha. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. I
do see Debra Johnson as well as-- she was on earlier, but General Counsel Snyder was here.

We also have Dave Jensen, Glen Horne, Doug MacLeod and Charlene Polege, as well as the Board
Office staff. I'll note, too, that you are joined by Chair Bouquet and Director Catlin as well.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you. Perfect. I was just about to recognize them. And I appreciate that.
Welcome, colleagues, to our meeting. We also have Principal Bouquet joining us, so we'll all be on our
best behavior, I'm sure.
So today, I also would like to note that because we have a special meeting, we do not have public
comment. However, if folks would like to send in their comments on anything on this agenda or general
OSC matters or next week's agenda, they can absolutely send an email to RTD's Board Office, which
again, is rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. But just for my edification, Mr. Crowley, there is nobody who
signed up to speak for public comment or is in the queue. Is that correct?
JACK KROLL: That is correct.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, sir. So just a few housekeeping matters, and then we will go to our
discussion item. Or I should say we're going to go ahead and start to present our discussion item.
We met last week on Saturday at our retreat. We had a very successful breakout. I will note that we had
over 20-plus policy requests and questions come to OSS during our breakout session.
We were able to collaboratively facilitate almost every single request, and I think that is a pretty
remarkable testament to our Z to work together quickly, reach consensus, as well as be pretty efficient.
As you guys might remember, we had a couple of categories we put things in. Some of it we realized
could be meant for a memo. Some were discussion items, and then some were also items for action.
Everyone has a copy of the latest work plan draft. There will be some modifications to that before,
possibly after this meeting, and then some other notations that we made. And you will receive that in your
inbox no later than end of business day Monday. But other than that, I will go ahead and we'll proceed
with our remainder items for this evening.
We have three. Two were in our bike valet. We didn't have a chance to get to them. And the third is
administrative matters for OSS, where we'll just discuss continuing ed interest and needs. So with that,
we will go into our two outstanding bike item-- bike valet items. Excuse me.
The first one was climate change planning or GHG reduction goals. For everyone's edification, this did
come up last year during our retreat, but we weren't able to fit it into our work plan schedule. And as
you're well aware, we had a lot of other initiatives last year and several strategic planning initiatives going
on right now.
And the reason why we're bringing it before you today is because it has come up before. Some other
transit agencies have plans to reduce greenhouse gas. We have obviously engaged in several
discussions regarding fleet transition. And it is possible that the state might actually regulate this or
mandate such a plan.
So the idea of bringing this up before the committee is just to get your general sense of if we would like to
have this discussion be early, set up a potential framework, and think of what kind of questions that we
would want to ask or information we need to garner so that whether we do this independently or it comes
via a state mandate, that we are adequately prepared. It is assumed, but does not necessarily-- it's not
necessarily settled that such a plan would fall under this committee. But given the general discussions

that we've had over the last couple of years on this topic, it tends to be the interest of our committee
members, which is why we might start it here. So with that, I'd like to just turn it over to General Manager
and CEO Ms. Debra Johnson and give her the floor so that she can present this topic and her perspective
on what information we might need to know or what framework we might want to set if we decide as a
committee to move forward with this discussion early.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good afternoon, everyone. Debra Johnson, General
Manager and CEO. I appreciate the opportunity to opine on the matter, but really want to understand the
direction in which the committee wants to go in.
As we talk about the climate action plan, recognizing public transportation regardless of alternative fuels,
propulsion systems of the like, we still are reducing vehicle miles traveled by the nature of our core
functional business. So what a better understand the intent of this effort relative to what it is that we're
doing. I know in 2021 or 2022, off the top of my head, the Board of Directors did adopt a resolution by
which we talked about reducing our carbon footprint.
That was tied primarily to our facilities and fleet transition plan for transit agencies, whose primary focus is
to deliver transit service. I believe we are making earnest steps relative to that, but would need to garner
a better understanding from Board members as to what it is outside of that realm that we are seeking to
solve for. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, Ms. Johnson, for that excellent recap and framing. Do we have any
comments from members of the body on this topic, or just general interest? And Co-chair Harwick if you
could just go ahead and let me know if anyone has raised their hand so I can call on them.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson has raised his hand.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you. Director Nicholson, you are recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So this has actually come up in conversations that I've had about the
fleet transition plan and RTD's climate planning. When I spoke with Conservation Colorado last year, it
was definitely something that they raised.
My question, actually, to GM/CEO Johnson's point, is there are, certainly in other states, Measures by
which you can purchase carbon offsets for a certain amount of money. And one question that I've had
when we look at this is, if we're just looking from the perspective of reducing carbon, how much will what
we're talking about cost, relative to how much will it cost to just pay somebody else to offset instead? And
that was what popped for me when I read the fleet transition plan.
So I think we shouldn't just be looking at what we can do. And we should be looking at the overall
question of how to have the largest carbon impact that we can, recognizing, as GM/CEO Johnson said,
that in some ways, the best things we can do is just get more people out of their cars and onto our buses
and trains. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, Director Nicholson. Ms. Johnson, do you have anything you'd like to add
to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, I appreciate it. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Director Nicholson. I
appreciate that. And he's absolutely right. Some other states have programs, for all intents and purposes,
that are geared toward transit.

I know in California, we had the Low Carbon Transit Operators Program, where those offsets are
provided specifically to transit agencies that are providing service in areas as identified by the California
Environmental Protection Agency that are eligible for funds to ensure that agencies are doing their part.
While we don't have that here, that doesn't negate the ability of us to be intentional with the reduction of
emissions in greenhouse gases, for all intents and purposes, and relative to the comments that were
made about the transition plan, with the emphasis being on facilities.
Because we are looking at facilities as well, not just those that would house vehicles for the intent of
maintaining them and servicing them, but also relative to other administrative facilities holistically. So
once again, I just need to garner a better understanding what the intent here is relative to what the Board
desires to do. So with that, I'll yield the floor back to you, Madam Chair. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. I think right now, as we stated-- you and I discussed
and I opened with, is we're in a bit of a fact-finding stage. So my thought was, perhaps we have a
discussion item and we can dialogue about what that looks like. But my thinking is, perhaps we invite the
state to come and present their plan and how they arrived at their targets, just recognizing that with or
without a legislative mandate, excuse me, it might be just a good place to start to see where our partners
are.
And then, again, this is not necessarily something that the committee has to move on as far as an action
or resolution, but maybe just get some-- just a learning experience, if you would, and just get a basic set
of facts so that we can make those decisions independently or otherwise. Do we have any other
comments on this matter? And feel free to share if you are yes, no, maybe, "keep it in the bike valet" in
terms of exploration. But understanding the committee's interest will certainly help us in terms of
scheduling, be that internally or with external matters.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri is in queue. And then Director Whitmore is in queue after that.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Director Paglieri, you're recognized. And then immediately after, we will go to
Director Whitmore. You are pre-authorized to speak.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair Ruscha. I have two quick things to say. One is, I welcome a
discussion about this to learn more and to get a sense of whether it's personal, being brought up to speed
of what the agency is doing, and also to express my intentions with this.
But thank you, CEO and GM Johnson, for acknowledging something that I think is tricky to acknowledge
sometimes, is, it's a cost benefit of doing zero-emission for sometimes running emissions-- emissionproducing vehicles are sometimes more expensive than zero-emission vehicles and alternative
technologies. And I think we should have a discussion as a Board as what are we using to measure the
cost and the benefit. And what are we willing to do? What benefits are we willing to forego in order to get
to a zero-emission system?
For example, how much-- how many fewer buses do we run if we have to buy more expensive buses, for
example? And then the other point is, I like that you mentioned, Chair Ruscha, that we should have the
state present is-- thinking about the financial aspect is, when we did the light rail and the commuter rail,
for example, we made it electrified. And it seemed like in Colorado, there's an expectation that we do the
things that are a little bit more difficult because we think it's the right thing to do. And that could be the
case with electrification and a zero-emission transit transportation system.

But it costs money. And maybe identifying some routes to getting funding from the state, if they're the
ones who are asking us to do this, and maybe identifying how much it might cost to reach the goals if we
were to be able to ask for some more money or some support. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, Director Paglieri. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Pleased to be pre-authorized. That's the highlight of my day, Madam
Chair. To Debra's point, by our nature, we are a good vessel to do this very issue. And that's to eliminate
as much carbon issues by the whole notion of group transport.
I guess I'm not 100% enthusiastic to get too carried away. A discussion, perhaps, would be fine. The
reason why, as Director Paglieri mentioned, is the almighty dollar right now. There's going to be a lot of
good bills killed at the State Capitol because there's fiscal notes that are unattainable.
And this whole lack of clarity about federal funds, at least for a while, makes me wonder if there really is a
chest of money to help us get to those goals. So I think discussion, yes. Maybe some outlines of what we
have been doing that works in our current budget system and what might be possible to move the needle
a bit would be good. But, I guess, maybe my parting words are, proceed with caution, but go ahead and
proceed. So thank you for the time.
IAN HARWICK: Director Ruscha, we have Director Chandler. And then I'd like to speak after that.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Absolutely. And thank you, everyone, for being entertained by my malapropisms.
Director Chandler, you are recognized. Welcome and thank you.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Well, thank you for having this discussion. I do have two points. One would be
to figure out what this agency is being forced to do by the state government. I think we don't have that.
And until we know what we're actually being asked to do, I don't think we should start planning, because
that could drastically change. And so I think going down that road very far would be foolish and our time,
energy and dollars wasted. So I think that's something we need to wait to see. I think that was to Director
Whitmore's point as well and to Director Paglieri's point.
And then my second point is that there are so many inputs that are part of this electrification grid capacity,
all of these other things that are beyond our control. So let's say that the agency does go to electric. Well,
what if there isn't enough output, and all of a sudden, the grid is not reliable? We put ourselves in a
position where everything from buses to our light rail system is now at risk. And so I'm not sure that that's
something that we should not think about.
We should think about the actual other inputs that are not just what's the end product, but all of those
things that are going to go. Because as a society continue to go towards that electrification, there's a lot of
things that the PUC needs to come up with before I think we need to jump into that. And so I hope we're
looking at all of those inputs as well and not just what we think we can do, but how we can sustain it over
time.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, Director Chandler. Keen points. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I just wanted to suggest that, given the long work plan we have to discuss,
we might want to move on from this and get-- because people may have comments on everything else,
basically.

JOYANN RUSHCA: All right. Moving along, then. I don't see any other hands raised for this item,
although my co-facilitator, Chair Harwick here, did have a comment.
IAN HARWICK: I actually was just going to echo Director Chandler. I think we should wait and see. And to
be honest, I actually think this was my idea last year or the year before. But I think we're better off-instead of getting in front of our skis, we should wait and know what we're up against.
And then we can really look at this and also be able to take the other things into consideration, like our
fleet transition plan. That's already going to-- that's a big thing in front of us. It's a lot of information. And
let's not borrow-- bite off more than we can chew right now. And let's wait and see what we're going to
have laying in our laps, if anything.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Sounds good. I'm hearing from the committee that we're in fact-finding discussion,
half out of the bike valet mode. Perhaps we'll schedule something in the future for a discussion item, not
necessarily an action. And so I'll go ahead and confer with staff, and then we'll follow up on that matter.
So moving on to the next item. And this was one that I raised, and it was actually service animals and our
code of conduct. We've discussed this a little bit before, but I just wanted to hear from our General
Manager and CEO.
This wouldn't be an action item. It might come back to us as a presentation from staff or as an FYI. But I'd
like to hear a little bit more about any efforts that we are undergoing or could engage in to reduce the
number of pets in vests, as we've called them, or just unrestrained pets on our system, as that does pose
a threat to our passengers and our staff alike.
And I apologize if that one seemed like a hot potato. I do believe I dialogued a little bit with Mr. Worthen
last year during a committee meeting about it. But it has come up with constituents, and so I flagged it for
the committee. Mr. Director Paglieri, unless, Ms. Johnson, you had anything you wanted to offer?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly for that. I appreciate the opportunity to speak. I do recall
that this, once you provided the context, had come up before. And I've engaged with several different
entities about this, because I do know not just on buses, but other places whereby people will try to
leverage animals with the vest for other purposes, not as a service animal.
I don't have any information readily available as it relates to complaints that we have had. Interestingly
enough, ADA-related complaints-- I happened to meet with our ADA Manager yesterday and have stats
relative to service animal complaints, which are really minimal when you think about where we are. We've
only had two complaints on light rail over the course of 2024, light rail and commuter rail. And as it relates
to bus, we only had 23.
And when you think about the number of boardings that we have, in the millions, that is de minimis. But
that does not negate the point that you've raised that you've heard from constituents. I just am really not
certain as to what it is that we're trying to do at this juncture, keeping in mind that we train our front line
employees, recognizing we have to ensure that we're respecting people's Civil Rights.
If somebody says they have a service animal, operators don't challenge that, quite naturally, because it
could put them in a precarious situation, as well as the agency as a whole. But there could be other
instances. So I'd need to garner a better understanding of the issue before I could really clearly say
whether or not we're trying to solve something, because I have not heard anything to the contrary and
have engaged in other entities that are familiar with this from a disability advocacy vantage point, working

with CCDC last year. So that's all I have to offer at this time, but am more than willing to engage at
another time with you and the Co-chair of this committee to garner a better understanding of what we're
trying to solve for. Thanks.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. And Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. This is Director Paglieri. Sorry, I forgot to say that last time, I think. Thank
you, Chair.
I was just going to quickly say that the only animal issues that I've heard about so far, thus far in my
representation of my district have been failure to follow rules on buses and light rail vehicles, and not
necessarily related to service animals or not service animals. Specifically, just animals, dogs sitting on
seats when they should be on the floor. And yeah, I echo-- I wouldn't necessarily be against this, but I
would be interested in figuring out if you're trying-- what more specifically you're trying to prevent dogs
from-- owners from saying an animal is a service animal when it's not a service animal. Is that correct?
JOYANN RUSHCA: I'll go ahead and answer your question, Director Paglieri. So just for clarification, so
GM/CEO Johnson is right. We don't challenge when somebody says that they have a service animal.
There are some animals that are not recognized as service animals.
But we also don't want to put our operators in a potential-- in a bad situation either, so we have to strike
that balance. I think I've noted before, we've had snakes on our bus that were titled "emotional support
snakes." So just as a matter of background, some other agencies have piloted programs where it was
completely voluntary, where a person with a service animal could, again, completely voluntarily, register
and get an ID for that service animal.
We cannot force any sort of registration. That would be unlawful. But that, combined with just
communication and public relations efforts, can also dramatically reduce the, quote, "pets in vests,"
unquote, and that's my phrase, and also ensure compliance for those who are just bringing their pet on
the system. And they need to make sure that they're following our rules regarding restraints and the like.
Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so I think for me, the challenge-- I shouldn't say "challenge" here. But at the
end of the day, the-- so I ride the bus every day, and there are-- people bring their dogs on the bus every
day, regardless of whether they're wearing a vest or not. And the operators, I think rightly, just let them
come on. They don't try to push back.
And for a lot of people, that's the only way to get their pets around. I think we are looking at this
backward. I think we should be exploring whether or not we should just be having a pet license. Oh, I got- oh, no, I'm not. Sorry.
I think we should be having a pet licensing program. It doesn't look like I'm on screen. And as a result of
that, let people who are willing to follow certain rules say, OK, you can bring your dog on a leash on the
bus. Because if people are doing it anyway, why not put in rules in place? And that might cut down on
people pretending to have a service animal as a way to get around that and also ensure greater
compliance.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, Director Nicholson. So I don't see any other hands raised. What I think I'll
do is just confer with GM/CEO Johnson and staff. And this could probably, as we say, be handled in a
memo.

We can go ahead and send out one, or she can send out one. Excuse me. And I think it would also be
good for us to just recap what our current code of conduct states so that we are starting from the same
point, as well as any FTA regulations on the matter. And we'll just decide if it's something that we want to
take up as a committee later.
I did hear-- I think I heard commentary on dogs being leashed or unleashed. Currently, our code of
conduct requires that a pet or cat, whatever your pet is, be in a carrier. And so we-- unlike some other
transit agencies, we don't have a provision for a leash. And I wonder if that is inadvertently incentivizing
folks to try to get around that rule, particularly if their animal is too large.
So with that, I think we're going to move just to the next portion of our discussion-- our discussion, excuse
me, and that is continuing ed and interest in industry topics. We are currently at 5:33, so we'll try to wrap
up in the next couple of minutes. But this is an opportunity for Directors to share any interests they might
have, and this would be a little bit new. This was done in the past in other committees, but we just want to
welcome anyone's suggestions. Director Nicholson, you are recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so I actually had a related question. I thought this was to discuss the work
plan. And I want-- I had things to comment on the work plan in order to-- that I had questions about.
Should we do that now? When is that in this agenda?
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you for that point of clarification, Director Nicholson. So our-- the discussion
item before us is just our work plan, so the things that we've talked about, because they might show up on
our work plan. Because they would be discussion items or things we would calendar as part of our work
plan.
So what I was just trying to do is get some things out of the bike valet, if you would, before we just open
up to general questions. But with that, I don't see any other hands raised regarding continuing ed topics. I
will send out, or have the Board Office send out, an email just to follow up. I did get some initial
responses back regarding continuing education for things that are on our calendar, and I've shared that
with staff. And we will make sure that everyone is accommodated in that regard.
But for the sake of time, I'm more than happy to just move on. And we can open it up just for general
comments or questions regarding the work plan so that we can-- so that we may close and have a
successful meeting next week to wrap it up. Director Nicholson, you're recognized again.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So the item that I submitted on that was a-- we ended up combining
with Director Harwick's item on IT updates. The language that I had sent over to you included a-- the first
step in this, being a report on real-time service information, schedule information.
And I didn't see that added to the work plan for April, which is what was-- which is what we had
discussed. So I saw something on a different topic, and I was wondering what that-- saw something on
fare collection strategies and tactics, but I didn't see anything on real-time schedule data, which was the
first part of the overall IT conversation. And I can reread the language that I sent you if that's helpful.
JOYANN RUSHCA: I'm aware of the language. And I might also be looking at a different version of our
work plan than what was published. But feel free, Director Nicholson, if you'd like.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. So where is it? Here it is. So the language was, and you got this part in, "By
June 30, 2026, a working group will complete a comprehensive transit technology plan that outlines

current technology infrastructure, with particular focus on operational technology. Identifies future
technology needs and recommends strategies for implementation." So that's what's in there already.
"And then as part of this effort, the Chair shall immediately request a report from staff on the status of
real-time schedule information systems, for producing, distributing and displaying it, including the
mechanisms involved, how the systems work, the reliability of those systems, the existing issues with
their functionality, any plans in place to remedy those issues, and what resources are needed to put those
remedies into place. This report shall be presented no later than the April 2025 OSS meeting." Basically,
we know there are challenges, significant ones, in place right now with real-time scheduling. We don't
display that information currently on the light rail.
We've had significant outages over the last year, with real-time data being sent to the transit app and
Google Maps. And it just comes up every day, with people being wondering when these things are going
to get fixed. So I think it is incumbent upon us to recognize that this is an urgent issue. And I know that
there is being significant work done by the agency at this moment just from email conversations and oneoff conversations I've had with GM/CEO Johnson.
But I think that we owe it to people to have an actual presentation that goes over what's going on and how
soon we expect to get fixes and what's been happening and what's been causing all these problems as
soon as is practicable. And I think it's February 1. If we say the middle of April to do this, that's a
reasonable target. But one of the reasons I wanted to bring it up here is, if GM/CEO Johnson wants to
push back and say, no, no, no, we need till May, I'm open to that argument. But I just think we need to
understand what's going on.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, Director Nicholson. Would any staff like to weigh in? I know that was
quite a bit. Yeah, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, thank you. Debra Johnson. Thank you very much, Director Nicholson.
Having not had the opportunity to confer with staff, I would suggest that we push it out till May. We have a
process here when we present items where we start weeks in advance. So the elements that we're
bringing forward, we have been drafting six weeks ago.
And so recognizing where we are with something delivered for April, we should already be in the process.
But I want to have the opportunity to confer with the appropriate staff, recognizing we're juggling a myriad
of things. But that doesn't negate the need for information to be disseminated to all of you.
I want you to know that I'm amenable to it. But at this point in time, if we could say May, I would
appreciate that, so we can be intentional and deliberate in reference to providing the information in which
you need to engage with your constituents and offer support to staff as we try to navigate legacy systems
and antiquated elements. As you indicated, Director Nicholson, we have been working on a myriad of
different elements for a while. And I want to ensure that we can provide information that would be helpful.
Thank you.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. So I think what I would offer is that we-- because we had a
lot of IT-related discussion on Saturday and inquiries. What we'll do is, we'll just collectively work together
and see what can be addressed sooner. And I also just want to-- but also recognize that staff needs time.
And that was-- we had quite a list.

I also just wanted to note that we are still in the middle of hiring a CTIO. So some of these things might
need to come after that person has been onboarded and fully acclimated and presented their own internal
plans. Mr. Kroll, I see your hand.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Committee Chair Rushca. I just want to flag, as GM and CEO Johnson raised
an important consideration with respect to items the committee and Board are requesting on the work
plan. And there is a long process, a thorough process internally for staff to develop items for presentation
to the Board to ensure their accuracy, to ensure that they are collaborative, and to ensure that they're
encompassing the broad swath of potential information that is relevant to the topic at hand.
And just an observation from where I sit on the work plan as it is currently drafted. There is a lot of frontloading on this work plan through the first five months. And I offer it as just an observation and a
recommendation that potentially there be some consideration of taking some of these items that are in the
March, April, May time frame and looking to slot those in later in the year, potentially in September,
October and November.
The capacity for the committee to focus on items, and really, the Board, is really contingent upon how
much is on the agenda. And I just worry that the committee may not be able to give as much attention to
some of these big items if they're all coming in the first half of the year. So I just leave that as a
recommendation and an observation.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, sir. We'll certainly keep efficiency in mind. Also, just to note, some of
these items might be equally suited for F&P, so we will confer with them as well. Director Chandler, you're
recognized.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Director Ruscha. My question mostly has to do with all of the open
positions that are wanting to be hired, because my questions might be better addressed by after the next
Police Chief is onboarded. I think Director Nicholson's question might be better addressed once the new
IT person's up and running.
So I think what we need to do is specifically ask, what is a work plan for those positions being hired for?
Of course we need those informations to push an agenda along, but that might push this out even further
to, to Mr. Kroll's point, of once they're hired. Then that will be part of their onboarding, which then, in turn,
would give us that information. So perhaps that's what we're looking for more, is timelines of different-when things are going to be hired for, so that we can plan on when we should start asking those
questions and when should the staff then start to formulate that so we can move those agenda items
forward.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, Director Chandler. And also that was a reminder to me because I
neglected to mention, excuse me, it is like a full-time job in Colorado to stay hydrated. Today is no
exception.
I neglected to mention during housekeeping, and that is, HR matters are being moved to Performance.
So those updates that we previously received from our Chief People Officer Ms. Charlene Polege will be
heard in Performance. The queries that I received in data requests I am compiling and sending to staff
and to GM/CEO Johnson so she's aware, because that used to come before this committee. And then as
far as RTD/PD, we did, upon request and concurrence, slate their presentation a little bit earlier, which
will be April.

There will also be a training, I believe, held within the next week or two shortly, regarding RTD/PD, which
might handle some questions. But I think this committee and others had more in-depth and wanted to get
a status update on personnel matters and operational matters. So with that, when we do have a new
Chief, we will absolutely make space to recognize and welcome them in this committee.
But it might still be prudent, even with our schedule, to get an update as soon as practicable, which looks
like it would be, I think, the April calendar. Director Nicholson, you are recognized. And to your point, it is
5:45, but go ahead.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, just to-- I wanted to say to GM/CEO Johnson that May is fine for this item.
So we can put that on the May calendar. And since it really won't be an action item, it will be a, hey, thank
you for this report, we can just hear it there or even punt it to the main Board meeting and hear the report
there. We don't need to do it twice.
But this is something that has come up. It comes up in every conversation. Quite honestly, why I ran for
the Board was out of frustration with the quality of the data that I was getting and the number of times that
I would miss a bus because the schedule would be inaccurate. And I hear it in practically every
conversation I have. So when I say it's necessary to move on it, I mean that.
I also don't necessarily think we need to hear from the new CTIO on this because it's really more a
question of what's happening right now and what are we doing right now. So it's less about what are-what could we do once this guy gets hired, but just, tell me the state of things and where we're at and how
it's going and what the-- because I think the public just has no understanding of why the results they're
getting are the results they're getting. And I think we need to just make it be clear with them about why
we're in-- why we're producing the results that we are in terms of giving them the information that we are.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you. Director Chandler, I see your hand raised.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Sorry, again, to-- thank you, Chairman Ruscha, for recognizing me. Just a
clarifying question. So are you saying that the hiring process will only be discussed in the Performance
Committee, and we will then be notified of what's happening? Or what does that process look like for this
committee?
Because I think some of those questions are paramount to that. Not that we have anything to do with the
hiring process or whatever, but that we should just maybe get an update. Or when you find out when
those are going to be discussed, please let us know so we can attend those meetings to hear that for
ourselves.
That would be very helpful, because I can't go to every single committee meeting. So it would be helpful
to know if they're going to discuss that ahead of time, that we are privy to that so that I can attend if that's
the only place I'm going to hear that information. You're muted.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you. Noted. And we will make sure that other agendas are also
communicated, as well as that transfer of information over to Performance Committee. But I do see that
GM/CEO Johnson has her hand raised. Ms. Johnson, Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Committee Chair Rushca. And thank you, Director
Chandler. Just for clarification, when we're talking about hiring with positions, I just wanted to ensure that
we're singing from the same hymnal.

There are certain elements relative to what was stated regarding the Chief People Officer providing an
update on our people power just in general as it relates to our transit service delivery, i.e., be it an
electromechanic versus a general repair mechanic and things of the like. What I was inferring from this
discussion were, more or less, all positions are critical to this organization. So let me qualify my
statement.
But there are some germane to topics in which you were saying. What I can do is provide an update
recognizing where we are, which I have done thus far, with some of those positions, and will continue to
do so. But I just wanted to share that for everyone's edification, because I was blurring some of these
matters and just wanted to ensure that it wasn't blurred for everybody else. Thank you very kindly for the
opportunity to share that.
JOYANN RUSHCA: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Much appreciated. And thanks also to your staff for all the
work that they do to present information to us and help us facilitate our own roles and help each other as
Directors.
With that, I don't see any other hands in the queue. So are there any-- I'm going to go ahead and close
this part of discussion. It sounds like we are pretty prepared for next week. Everything might not be
buttoned up and settled, but I think we've all been heard.
And procedure-wise, we're fairly good to go for the year, if not the next, as noted, five months. Are there
any other "for the good of the order" matters? Seeing no hands raised.
The next Operation Safety and Security Meeting is scheduled for next week, February-- Wednesday,
excuse me, February 12. That meeting will be busy. We're going to consider on-demand funding, which
was previously authorized in our budget, cameras for light rail vehicles, summary scope of work and
contracting for security services, as well as vote to adopt our committee work plan, which again, as you
know, is subject to change.
We will also hear a discussion on the proposed service changes. That would take place, or sorry, be
effectuated in May of 2025. So next week will be the discussion, and that vote will follow in March.
Seeing no other discussion or hands raised. This meeting is adjourned at 5:50 PM Mountain Time. Thank
you, everyone. And have a wonderful night.

