2024-11-21
Executive Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good afternoon, everyone. The Thursday, November 21 Executive Committee will now
come to order. We are convened as of 12:28 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask
everyone attending this meeting to please mute yourself unless you're recognized to speak.
This committee meeting, along with other committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors, is being
held remotely via Zoom and is audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing communication access real-time translation, also known as
CART, and anyone who would like to access this CART service can send an email to the RTD Board
Office using the email address, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally,
the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a
live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's
YouTube page.
I will now call the roll for the committee members. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson speaking. I am also present. That is, all five committee
members present.
I note for the sake of the record, we are also joined by Director Tisdale and Director Lewis. Thank you for
being here, gentlemen.
We'll now move to the public comment section of our agenda. I'll open up public comment to anyone who
would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the
current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not done so, you may raise your
virtual hand, or, if dialed in by phone, you can press star 9. During this time, the committee does not offer
any direct comments or responses, although we welcome anyone who would like to be contacted

regarding their comment to email the RTD Board Office at the email address, rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
Mr. Kroll, do we have any hands raised at this time?
JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. While we are
still joined by several members of the public from our last meeting, we do not have anyone present here
who has raised their hand to indicate their desire to provide public comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr Kroll. And for the sake of the record, can you read in as to whether we
received any public e-mailed comments for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Committee Chair Davidson, no emailed comments were received in advance of this
meeting that were submitted as public comment for this meeting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, sir. Seeing no participants in the queue and noting no
comments received via email, we will now close the public comment period at this time and move to our
recommended actions.
There are five recommended actions this afternoon. Our time is a bit tight. We have several members that
have hard stops around 2:00 PM, so just wanted to note that I will do my best here to work efficiently. As
a reminder for the committee staff and anyone watching and/or listening to the meeting, any action that is
passed through the Executive Committee, even if the vote is unanimous, will be included on the Board
agenda under Recommended Actions as opposed to the unanimous consent, so that the full Board will
have an opportunity to discuss the measure presented.
With that being stated and noted, the first action under consideration by the committee is item A. This is
the 2025 Legislative and Government Relations program. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the
2025 Legislative and Government Relations program. Do I have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movant as Guzman, the second as Bouquet. And with that, I'd like to first
open up the floor to Mr. Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer, to present this item. Please
go ahead, sir.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair, and members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. I'm here to present the recommended action to approve the 2025 Legislative and
Government Relations Program. Given that this committee has received a presentation from me last
month as a discussion item on this, I won't go into depth. But I will simply end there and see if there is any
questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm going to see if there's any questions at this time, Mr. Davies. I'll start by saying
thank you for the discussion that you did provide to us. There were some great questions, I think, good
discussion around what will be possible. I know it's going to be another busy year for you. So thank you
for organizing all that.

Any questions from Directors at this time? OK. Seeing none, Mr. Davies, thank you for being here. I'll call
for the vote and ask, are there any no votes on this action? Seeing none, with the movant as Guzman,
the second as Bouquet, that will pass with five yes votes, zero no, and zero abstentions.
Once again, Mr. Davies, thanks for the organization. Tremendously appreciate the way we're approaching
government relations by adopting these programs in advance of the session. Thank you, sir.
With that, we will now move to our next recommended action. This is item B, the Independent Audit
Committee membership appointment, reappointment, and authorization. This is for the Board of Directors
to take the following actions related to membership on the Independent Audit Committee. First, appoint
Director Buzek to a term commencing January 1, 2025 and expiring December 31, 2026. Second, to
reappoint external member Jim Brindle to a term commencing January 1, 2025 and expiring December
31, 2026. And finally, to authorize former Director Dishell to remain on the committee through November
17, 2025.
Do I have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movant as Bouquet, the second as Guissinger.
At this time, I'll go ahead and ask if there are any comments, and I'll offer some as well after these two.
But first, would like to see if Mr. Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager of the Board Office, or if Mr. Doug
MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, had anything he'd like to add.
But Mr. Kroll, I believe you've been coordinating with him. So I'm going to hand off to you and see if
there's anything you'd like to add.
JACK KROLL: Yes. First, I just need to correct the record. Unfortunately, there was an error in the Board
report here, and this is my fault. I had a habit, unfortunately, of mixing up Jim Brindle and John
Olenberger's name as I was developing this. John Olenberger is actually the current external member
who is in need of reappointment to the committee.
So if the record could simply just reflect that the action would be to appoint Director Buzek, reappoint
external member John Olenberger, and authorize Director Dishell to remain on the committee. Mr.
Brindle, for the record, has a term that will expire at the end of next year.
All right. Sorry for that mistake. But otherwise, the only other thing I want to point out here is that Director
Dishell had resigned from the Board effective November 17. However, according to your Audit Committee
charter-- this appears on packet page 15-- he is eligible to remain on the committee if he is interested and
the Board agrees to. So that's the only thing that's a little bit unique in this process.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for adding that. And thank you for noting the error. And apologies
for missing that as well as going through this. And we will let the record reflect that we would be
reappointing external member John Olenberger to a term commencing January 1, 2025 and expiring
December 31, 2026.

I will just offer, first of all, that the folks who have stepped up to serve on this committee have my
tremendous thanks. Certainly, Director Catlin and Director Dishell and our external members, Mr. Jim
Brindle and Mr. John Olenberger, who have brought a lot of expertise and help.
I just would remind and note for the record that one of the discussions back when we had the ad hoc
audit committee and were designing and reinventing both the audit committee and the internal audit
function, a key problem we were solving for was ensuring that we had expertise on the committee and
that we had the experience of being on the board on the committee and retained institutional knowledge.
Hence, we used two-year terms.
We added external members with audit expertise. And we also did provide the opportunity for a board
member, if they were in the middle of their two-year appointment when rolling off the board, to seek and
then be confirmed by the Board, continuing out the remainder of that term. And I think I speak for many of
us when I thank Director Dishell for his willingness to fill in that role. He has my full support in doing that.
I do think that that helps us retain our institutional knowledge in this committee and believe that-- just
would like to highlight, since I will not be here, there's going to be some important work to be done next
year as we consider additional members that will be rolling on and how we really continue to solve for that
problem of preserving that expertise and that experience on the committee. And thank Director Buzek for
raising his hand and his interest to join as well.
So with that being noted, are there any other questions or comments from Directors or any members of
staff?
All right. Oh, Secretary Guzman, please go ahead, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just a quick one. Anticipating that further training and knowledge learning will need
to be done going into future years to meet the expectation that has been set by the charter, is there a plan
on our end to ensure that Directors who might be interested in doing audit work can receive the proper
education, proper training to be able to continue that work?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the question, Secretary. I saw Mr. Kroll's hand go up. Please go ahead,
sir.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. So, Director Guzman, as you are intimately familiar with the training, well, the Board
orientation, onboarding, and continuing education training policy, the Board has outlined an expectation
that Board members be trained on the Audit Committee's function in that. I think what your question is
driving at is, OK, it's one thing to understand what the Audit Committee does and its purpose. It's another
thing to bring the skill sets to the table.
And I think that can be reflected-- this is something I was going to touch on under Other Matters, if the
time allowed. But I'll briefly mention, that policy also calls for a annual board assessment to be completed,
in which we are going to ask Directors what skill sets and what knowledge they feel like the Board
collectively has and use that to identify areas for continuing education.
So while it's not a direct plan to educate folks with the skills necessary to perform the audit function at its
highest level, it is a window for us to gain those insights and plan accordingly, if the Board is considering
itself lacking in any given area, let alone this one that you raise.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, and thank you, Secretary. I will also note, just in adding on to
that, that I would encourage Directors to participate in those meetings who might be interested, also to
engage with current committee members. And furthermore, a resource that is available within the Board
Office is the Institute of Internal Auditors, or IIA, produces what's colloquially referred to as the Red Book.
This is more specifically the International Professional Practices Framework, or IPPF.
And I think that certainly at a minimum, it is helpful to be very familiar with that as an Audit Committee
member, having read through that. And then there are resources available through the IIA. So I would
submit that as something for consideration for the Board as it refines its training practices in the year and
years ahead.
Any further questions or comments on this? All right. Not seeing any, I will call for the vote. Are there any
no votes on this action?
OK, seeing none, that will also pass with five yes votes, zero no, and zero abstentions. Thank you very
much. And again, thanks for all of those who are serving on that committee and to our staff for leaning in
and engaging on a very still nascent but well developing process for internal audit.
We'll now move on to our next recommended action. This is item C, this is bylaw amendments to update
descriptions of the Executive and Performance Committees. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the
proposed bylaw amendments which will clarify the roles of the Executive and Performance Committees,
as well as adjust several related administrative matters. Do I have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second, Catlin.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movant as Guzman, the second as Catlin.
Before opening up for discussion and questions, I again will ask if our Executive Manager of the Board
Office, Jack Kroll, has any comments and thank him for his leadership and help in looking at and updating
our bylaws and making adjustments to both match current practices, desired practices, and those that we
had committed to with the Office of the State Auditor as well.
So thank you for your work, sir. I'll open up the floor to you first to just see if there's anything you would
like to present and highlight.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. As introduced, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the
Board Office.
One of the things that happened with this item is that it was scheduled for discussion at last month's
meeting. That is typical, given our Board operating guidelines, that we usually bring items of significant
policy or governance importance twice, once as a discussion and once as an action item.
However, time was short at last month's meeting as well. And so I just want to highlight one thing here
specifically that changed between when this was presented as a draft and when this is coming back to
you now as an action item. The Board Office solicited additional feedback from members of the Board as
to whether to set specific hard times for the Performance Committee and the Audit Committee.

More specifically, currently, Finance and Planning, Operations, Safety and Security, and Executive
Committee have specific meeting cadences and times that are delineated in the bylaws, and the
Performance and the Internal Audit Committee did not. And the feedback that we received was in the
camp that the Performance Committee should settle in on its current practice and just set that cadence
and timing in stone in the bylaws, that the committee meeting would start at 8:30 AM on the first Monday
of each month. The Internal Audit Committee, where that is left at is I think we need some additional input
from the Internal Audit Committee itself before we set something down specifically there.
Now just a quick highlight of some of the changes in here that were included last month but we didn't get
a chance to discuss. Several items under the Executive Committee's purview that were actually
describing powers and duties of the Chair were simply moved to that section that describes the powers
and duties of the Chair. That's less of a substantive change and more of just a administrative change.
Additionally, though, the Executive Committee has some specific responsibilities added to its bailiwick. I
think most significantly is overseeing the internal governance of the Board. While that has been an
internal practice of ours, I think it's important for the Board to specifically call out and note which
committee on the Board is responsible for handling board governance. And so that's, I think, a key
change with respect to the Executive Committee's description.
And then real quickly, with respect to the Performance Committee's description, this, as Chair Davidson
noted, was in direct response to some of the feedback the agency received and committed to addressing
in the Office of the State Auditor's performance audit that was released earlier this year. And I think those
changes there are pretty self-explanatory. And in the red line version, they appear on page 32 of your
packet.
And so with that, that's all I wanted to highlight and I'm happy to yield the floor and take any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. I'll just emphasize for members of the committee and
the Board that some of these changes on the Executive Committee side, as noted by Mr. Kroll, are
already-- really, it's encompassing some current practices, but it's somewhat of a way to emphasize the
committee's roles and responsibilities in terms of owning governance, owning its budget, planning the
retreats, all those types of things that we do today, but serving two purposes as solidifying that in the
bylaws but also then reminding the committee. And I again, thank Mr. Kroll for helping accomplish that
and also identifying the areas where we had some things in not the wrong section but maybe not the ideal
section.
Any questions or comments from Directors? Yes, Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm not going to object to it going forward. I just want to know if there is a logic
behind having a Monday morning meeting for performance issues rather than having one either on
another day of the week, if it's just timing. 8:30 AM on Monday mornings can be kind of rough when
you're coming back from a weekend and have quite a bit of work to catch up on, to focus on issues of
performance. And so I'm just curious how that came to be.
I mean, even today, I'll admit, I've worked my morning shift this morning and had difficulty logging into the
meeting, and it was an hour later than we had planned. And it's just a Monday, right. And so I'm just
questioning the logic behind putting it on a Monday, when it might be beneficial to move it to a Tuesday or
later in the week when we might have a more productive discussion. I'm not opposed. Just curious.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I'll be happy to start and then I'll hand off to you, Mr. Kroll, because you solicited some
feedback. I think in large part, this was seeking that we needed to embrace something. And given that
this had been the practice this year, that members of staff, most notably General Manager and CEO
Johnson, who needs to participate in these Performance meetings, has this as a standing meeting, or at
least has allocated the time, I should say.
But we haven't created that standing practice the way we have with Executive Committee, which is also
during the day, or the other committees in the evenings. And making something standing and putting that
in line with current practice seemed like the most reasonable way to get commitment on that. As with any
of these, it can be visited, revisited, but doing so would require an upfront commitment. And the point
being that, at least for a foreseeable time horizon, there is a commitment that Directors and staff have
made together.
Regarding the specific time and current practice, Mr. Kroll, if there's anything you wanted to highlight in
terms of feedback that you received as you were working on this final draft, please go ahead and share
that.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, Thank You, Chair Davidson. The only thing I would add to that is that this gives the
Board some diversity of timing. I think it's often assumed that Board members have kind of had that
traditional 8:00 to 5:00 PM employment situation, but that's really not the case, at least as far as the
universe of people who could come onto to the Board. And so giving folks a diversity of options.
This also cements the practice that's been in place for the last two years for this committee meeting. And
that has appeared to work well. The Board Office does circulate draft Board meeting dates and times, and
we have not received any feedback to the contrary that that time or date was not working well for folks.
And it does indeed, as Chair Davidson pointed out, work well for the GM and CEO to make that happen.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Secretary, does that answer your questions?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, it does. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Any further questions or discussion?
OK, seeing none, thank you very much, everybody, for reviewing this as Mr. Kroll had sent out. I'll go
ahead and call for the vote. Are there any no votes?
Seeing and hearing none, that will also pass with five yes votes, zero no, and zero abstention. Thank you
very much, everybody, for continued refinement and improvement on our bylaws.
We'll go to our fourth recommended action for consideration. This is item D, the Citizen Advisory
Committee, or CAC appointments and reappointments. This is for the Board of Directors to appoint three
new members to three-year terms, appoint five new members to two-year terms, and reappoint two
members to another three-year term.
Do I have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: A second?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movant as Bouquet, the second as Guissinger. And again, thank you for
joining us and being prepared to engage quite a bit in the committee today, Mr. Kroll. Our Board Office
Executive Manager, Jack Kroll, thank you for your leadership in pulling together these appointments and
reappointments. Please go ahead and present the work and anything you'd like to address on this item.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Again, Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office
here.
To start, the Board acted earlier this year to approve the CAC's charter. This was in feedback that the
Board received from the CAC that outlined a desire to recommit to the CAC and to revisit its role and
purpose. And with that in the rear view mirror, Chair Davidson issued a call earlier this fall for the
committee to work with the Board Office to solicit members. We had tremendous support from across the
agency, and our Communications and Engagement Team here did a great job of promoting the
opportunity to apply for the CAC, and we received 34 applications stations from almost every district in
the agency's footprint provided at least one applicant.
A nominating committee that was comprised of the several members of the current CAC, as well as
Directors Bouquet and Lewis and myself, met, discussed a very highly qualified application pool. We had
to make some challenging decisions along the way, but we believe in and are confident that we're
forwarding to the Board right now a slate of nominees that is diverse in its background, diverse in its
geographic representation, and passionate about bringing solid and invaluable feedback to this agency.
The Board report contains brief descriptions on each one of the nominees that is being recommended.
And I'm happy to answer any questions and perhaps suggest to the chair that if Treasurer Bouquet has
anything to add about his time on the nominating committee that we hear from him as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And was planning to open up here and first of all, just thank
Director Lewis and Treasurer Bouquet for their work on this as well. I know it takes time and patience. I
think Treasurer Bouquet, you've done this twice now. We did this together a couple of years ago. And
thank you for stepping up, both of you, to do this and evaluate this.
If either Director Lewis or Treasurer Bouquet have any comments to make about the process and about
the nominees, I would certainly love to hear so at this time. And I see, Treasurer Bouquet, your hand is
up. Please go ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. Am I coming through OK?
ERIK DAVIDSON: You are. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, perfect. Sorry. I had a little internet issues earlier on.
Yeah, I just wanted to give a big shout out to Mr. Kroll for all the work that he's done, as well as Peak
Consulting Group for helping us out, as well as Director Lewis and everyone involved when it came down
to it. I've done this several times now when it comes down to selecting CAC members. And I will say that
we had a great amount of applicants this go around. And there was some difficulty of picking who our
finalists would be.

But I would say that I look forward to the nominees serving on the CAC. I think they're going to do an
excellent job. And yeah, a lot of talented folks coming from a lot of backgrounds and those who are
connected with transit either through their work or, most importantly, being riders. So thank you for all that
helped out in the process and looking forward to the CAC nominees being passed along. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer. I'm glad to hear that. Thank you very much.
And I see Director Lewis's hand is up. Thank you for stepping up as well. Please go ahead and make any
comments you'd like to share.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah. Just to reiterate, we had a fantastic source of people, variety of backgrounds. I just
wanted to say that it was really great to see our staff be able to get the word out about the CAC, but I
hope we give that same effort to start stocking our ACPD and APAC committees. I know they also have
people rolling off those committees. So I hope we can put the same effort into getting those committees
up to their proper numbers. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. I appreciate it. Great comments. And hear, hear.
And, Mr. Kroll, thank you for tremendous work getting the word out. I think the work that you did on the
front end of this is why we had a good number of applicants here, and that's a good problem to have. So
thank you.
I'll open up for discussion or questions from any Directors, committee and non. And I'll just start by calling
on the hands I see, starting with committee members. I see First Vice Chair Catlin has her hand raised.
First Vice Chair Catlin, please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to comment on the caliber of the selected members.
I was really impressed with not only the diversity of experience and expertise, but just across the board
diversity for the region.
So kudos to Directors Bouquet and Lewis for their good work in the selection of these committees
members. The new ones is what I'm really commenting on, but the existing committee members have
also provided a great service, and I think we have really elevated the role of this committee in the agency.
It originally started as a FasTracks Advisory Committee, and it's really evolved into something much more
collaborative and substantial. So thank you all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair Catlin. Again, hear, hear. This was a great slate
of candidates, or nominees, and really appreciate the work there.
Other questions or comments from Directors? Director Lewis, I see your hand is raised, but I'm guessing
that's just residual from your comments earlier. Thank you, sir. Any further comments or questions?
OK. Wonderful. Well, once again, thank you so much. It's my pleasure to call for the vote on this one. Are
there any no votes on this action?
All right. With the movant as Bouquet and the second as Guissinger, I see no no votes. That will be five
yes votes, zero no, and zero abstentions. Thank you. We look forward to bringing this to the full Board
and then welcoming some new members to the CAC and thanking those that will be continuing.
We'll now move to our final recommended action for the committee's consideration this afternoon. This is
item E, the transit passes for former Directors. This is for the Board of Directors to build upon, ratify, and

reaffirm the existing agency practice to provide annual transit passes to all former Board of Directors and
a designated immediate family member by adopting the enclosed resolution establishing the right of all
former Directors and a designated immediate family member to receive an annual pass in perpetuity.
Do I hear a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And a second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movant as Guzman, the second as Bouquet.
Now, given that this is coming forward to the Board as a director-initiated action which has been led by
Director Tisdale, I would like to open the floor to Director Tisdale first to please present this item before
any further discussions or questions.
Director Tisdale, please go ahead, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. The material is set forth in the Board
report.
For the sake of clarity, there are actually 12 sponsors of this recommended action out of the 14 members
of the Board. And I think it, as it states, is simply a ratification and reaffirmation of a practice that RTD has
had in place for as many years as the memory of man runneth to the contrary not. That's an old law
school expression. But anyway, so I'd be happy to respond to any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale, for being here and for preparing this and for noting the 12
Directors bringing this item forward. I will now open up for any questions or comments from any present
Directors. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just wanted to say thank you to Director Tisdale and Director Buzek for taking this
on and preparing it. I appreciate it. That's all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. First Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Directors Tisdale and Buzek.
I wanted to make a comment that not only is it common practice, but when I was recruited to apply for an
appointment and subsequently a run for election, it was not only a practice but it was a promise. They told
me, the Board Office told me at that time, you know if you get on the Board then you will get a transit
pass. I did not know that it had not been memorialized into the policy.
So I appreciate that that was unearthed, Director Tisdale and Director Buzek. Because it was my
understanding when I got on the Board that this was-- because it was a supplement to our salary,
actually, that it was a nice benefit for having served. So I just wanted to applaud you all. But I think there
was an understanding from a number of Board members that this was in place. And it didn't necessarily
need to be memorialized, but I'm glad it will be. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. Any further questions or comments from Directors?
I have one I'll offer. Thank you, Director Tisdale, for highlighting that it was not memorialized, as First Vice
Chair Catlin noted, and for bringing it forward. I'll share that my hope for this, in this position is that this
can be a means to which to attract folks who highly value this transit system, who leverage the transit
system, and that aside from the stipend, which is set legislatively, that what can be done within RTD, this
can be an incentive for those who really value and take advantage of RTD's services and bring the
experience of riding the system into the board room.
So thank you for presenting us the opportunity to take ownership of that and put that forward and put
policy in place and to not fall back simply on practice, which I think we've done a number of things like
that this year. So appreciate those opportunities to refine.
Not seeing any further comments, I'll go ahead and call for the vote. Are there any no votes from the
Committee on this action? Seeing none, that will also pass with five yes votes, zero no, and zero
abstentions, with the movant as Guzman and the second as Bouquet. Thank you very much, everybody,
for your work on that.
At this time, we'll now move to the next portion of our agenda. This is the December Board meeting
agenda review. Is there a motion to approve the Board meeting agenda for our meeting on Tuesday,
December 3?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Do I have a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movant as Guzman, the second as Catlin.
This is a relatively full agenda but quite straightforward. I know we've had a couple of Executive
Committees recently we've had to make some notes about the agendas. I have no notes at this time, so
I'll go ahead and open for if there's any questions or discussion on the agenda.
And any Director's welcome to raise their hand. I'll first call on Director Lewis, please. Thank you for
joining us. And please go ahead.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes. At our last full Board meeting, the subject of Greyhound station lease had come up.
And I was under the impression that was going to be a discussion item for our December meeting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I see that-- thank you, Director Lewis. I see General Manager and CEO Johnson has
raised her hand. So I'll go ahead and hand it over to you, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. As introduced, Debra Johnson, General
Manager and CEO.
It was my intent to provide an update. Having spoke with Executive Manager of the Board Office, Jack
Kroll, we're going to incorporate that. And I would do that just in my section, whereby I would do the
General Manager and CEO's report.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for clarifying that, General Manager and CEO Johnson. And just for clarity
on the record, that would be to hear the update during the General Manager and CEO's report.
Director Lewis, does that address your question?
JAIME LEWIS: No, it does not, because a discussion item is different from the CEO of Johnson from
making her comments. So if it cannot be fit on the December agenda, I'd like to see it on the January
agenda, if that's possible.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. Before making any further comments on that myself, I see
that General Manager and CEO Johnson's hand is up. Please go ahead, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, thank you. Once again, Debra Johnson. I'm amenable either way. I just
wanted to state that for the record, recognizing that it was inadvertently omitted. I was trying to offer up an
alternative, but I'm amenable either way. I will defer to this committee to decide what the course of action
will be. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I'll offer the comment that when the General Manager and
CEO has provided her report, there are sometimes times that we have taken questions, sometimes that
we have not. And I think that's just a byproduct of when there are questions about the report. I would
anticipate there may be some questions pursuant to her update.
I would ask General Manager and CEO Johnson, if you're amenable, to entertaining some questions after
you provide your General Manager and CEO report and that if we are tight on time, then we could revisit,
if the questions are not well addressed at that time. Would that be something you'd be open to?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, yes, most definitely.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. So Director Lewis, would that be amenable that we will
pause for questions after the General Manager and CEO's report so that any input or questions can be
addressed? And then if they are not fully addressed and there are remaining concerns from Board
Directors, we can agendize it at a future meeting. Does that work for you, sir?
JAIME LEWIS: I agree. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
Next, I see Director Tisdale's hand raised. You are now recognized.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In reviewing the agenda, I noted one thing that is
not mentioned that I had thought we were going to hear in December. And specifically, it relates to the
Fleet and Facilities Transition Plan.
It was on October the 12th, 2023 that the Operations Committee approved a $10 million contract for work
to commence in September, 2023 and to conclude by December, 2024. It was discussed in detail and
approved by the full Board on April the 25th of 2023. And for the sake of the record, I actually voted no on
that resolution.
But we are now in December, presumably have spent $10 million. And I was hoping before I left that I
would see the Fleet and Facilities Transition Plan. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Director Tisdale. It's a great question. Thank you for raising that. I'll
call on General Manager and CEO Johnson to provide an update and some context in terms of where
that will be agendized. So, Ms. Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO,
for the record.
The item that Director Tisdale is referencing is the Facilities, Fleet and Transition Plan, because the
emphasis is on the facilities, as that has been an obstacle in reference to basically being able to adopt
alternative fuel technology as it relates to the propulsion systems of our revenue vehicles.
With that being said, at the meeting that took place just on November 13, we had Assistant General
Manager Fred Worthen and our WSP partners provide an in-depth presentation relative to the Facilities
and Fleet Transition Plan and where we stood. Recognizing that the deliverable is to have the Facilities
and Fleet Transition Plan provided to this organization on December 13, the nature of providing that
information during the course of that meeting was to acclimate all parties relative to the status of such
efforts that have been undertaken.
With that as the backdrop, the plan is to be disseminated to all Board members. If it's this body's desire to
hear the presentation once again, recognizing those materials were disseminated to the full Board with
the complete packet, then apprise me accordingly and I will work with the Assistant General Manager of
Bus Operations to provide the same presentation that was provided last week. Thank you very kindly.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you very much GM/CEO Johnson. And Director Tisdale, I'll just add to
that that, yeah, I would refer back to that November 13 meeting and presentation as the update. And this
certainly is one of those situations, much like our APTA peer review of our paratransit services, where we
received the update of where we stand.
The full recommendations and report will then be coming forward, with the Board having discussed and
been updated where we are. And then prior to anything that this Board would need to adopt, there would
be further discussion and recommended action. And unfortunately, just where we sit in the year and the
transition here, we had the update on progress in November 13. There will probably be a little bit of
repeating of that as we transition to several new Board members next year and then be getting further
updates once that report is disseminated in December.
So just to highlight a little bit of where we are in the year there. So thank you, General Manager and CEO
Johnson for that. Director Tisdale, does that answer your questions? And please go ahead for any follow
up.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. And I thank you very much. And I apologize. I did not realize that at the Ops
Committee, there had been this presentation. And that's my own fault for not monitoring that meeting. I
was not available to audit that committee meeting.
And I appreciate very much the update. It is an important discussion that we've had ongoing for a long
time. So I will now make a point of going back and reviewing the Operations and Safety Committee
meeting, Safety and Security meeting on November 13. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale, I appreciate that.

Any further questions or comments about the agenda before we take the vote? All right. Seeing none, I
will call for the vote. Are there any no votes on moving the agenda forward? Seeing none, with the
movant as Guzman, the second as Catlin, that will pass with five yes votes, zero no, and zero
abstentions.
We do have two discussion items, followed by Other Matters. Thank you for the efficiency of the meeting
here as we are working through a lot of things.
The first discussion item that is on our agenda is the monthly Government Relations Report for
November, 2024. Mr. Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer, thank you for your patience in
being with us. And I'll now yield the floor to you to make a presentation, sir.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair and members of the committee. As introduced, Michael Davies,
Government Relations Officer.
I have a brief report for you. Starting at the federal level, and has been noted in previous reports,
currently, the federal government is running on a continuing resolution of appropriations from Congress.
That continuing resolution expires December 20. There's not a clear path on what Congress is going to
do, whether they're going to extend another continuing resolution or find full funding. But certainly, the tea
leaves kind indicate that it's leading toward another continuing resolution after December 20. And so we'll
keep the Board up to date on that.
And just as a reminder, continuing resolutions do have an impact on USDOT's ability to put out a full year
of funding for RTD to be drawn down, as well as has impacts on competitive grant solicitations that are
offered to agencies around the country.
Lastly, in the written report, at the federal level, I had noted some speculation about appointees that the
press had been, again, speculating on for the appointment to the USDOT Secretary. And like a lot of
speculation, that's just what it was, speculation, and it was completely wrong. President-elect Trump did
nominate former Congressman, Wisconsin Congressman Sean Duffy to that position.
That Congressman, when serving in Congress, did not serve on any of the committees of jurisdiction on
transportation and largely focused on the Financial Services Committee within the House, but does have
some bills that were passed with regards to transportation matters, mostly in the trucking industry, that
were incorporated into the current surface transportation program, or reauthorization bill, rather. So we'll
continue to keep the Board up to date as more officials, Presidential appointee positions at USDOT are
announced over the coming months.
Moving over to the state level, not a lot of updates, really, at the state level. Leaders at the General
Assembly have just been organizing, electing leadership, and starting to get prepared for next session.
No new legislation has come across my desk to make the Board aware of.
The one thing that's not included in the written report that did come about in between writing that report
and now is that the Legislative Audit Committee has scheduled a meeting on December 9 to hear a bill
with regards to the Office of the State Auditor's recommendations. And one of those recommendations
was to alter the definition of operating expenses for RTD.
RTD largely agreed with that recommendation, and it just aligns the definition of operating expenses with
how RTD reports at the federal level as well. So very small change. But the actual bill will be heard by the

Legislative Audit Committee on December 9, and RTD staff intends to participate, in partnership with the
Office of the State Auditor, for that hearing.
Moving to the local level, just to note, we continue to arrange engagement opportunities at the local level.
And I'd just note on October 24, Board members, as well as General Manager and CEO Johnson and
myself, attended the North Area Transportation Alliance meeting, or NATA meeting, and provided an
update to that group up there, which is a group of elected officials from largely the Adams County area.
And certainly, some engagement opportunities with the metro mayors are on the horizon here as they're
organizing and really thinking toward 2025.
So with that, I'll end my report and see if there's any questions. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies, for all of that and, as always, for your collaboration. Before
opening up for questions, I would be remiss if I didn't note, I just want to thank broadly, while we're talking
about government relations, we had a lot of local and state officials that were very supportive of this
agency through the ballot initiative or ballot question, 7A, that this Board unanimously referred for the deBrucing of RTD's revenue sources, which passed by approximately 71% of the vote district-wide.
So I just wanted to, before opening up for questions for Mr. Davies, express my immense gratitude for the
tremendous support of transit, transit funding, transit resources, and RTD services that we saw from
many of the mayors, the county commissioners, chambers of commerce, legislators, really many, many
people.
And certainly would thank our own Second Vice Chair Guissinger for her continued work championing
that, organizing that, engaging in what was very much a grassroots effort and working with many of those
officials. And certainly a thank you to all Directors who, when working closely with Second Vice Chair
Guissinger and often at her direction and great help, seeking some of that support and assistance from
those elected officials in what was truly a grassroots and lean effort. So thank you to Second Vice Chair
Guissinger and thank you to any who may be listening on that government relations front for their support
and help of the agency.
With that being said, and thank you for allowing me to take a little bit of Chair's prerogative there to
highlight that. I know, let's come back around to Mr. Davies' Government Relations report there on the
local, state, and federal level. Thank you for providing all of that. I'll open up to any questions that
Directors may have to you, starting with Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I am curious. I have heard different discussions around what we are
going to look at going into this legislative session in terms of funding, walking into a pretty severe deficit
on the state level. Are we aware of how that might impact RTD in terms of the provisions that were made
for funding Zero Fare for Youth through the Senate bill that was passed last year, which needs to be reapproved annually, is my understanding of how that bill worked, and reapportioned properly.
And do you have an update, maybe, on what the state of that particular bill is or where we're at with it?
Because I know we were going through the process of collecting, and then how do you fund it out and
how we participate in that process, keeping the commitment to the bill to be able to draw down any of
those funds. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Mr. Davies, please.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Thank you, Director Guzman, for the question. It's a great question.

And for background, so the grant program that funds the Zero Fare for Youth, that is set in law and that
will stay in place. You are correct. It needs to be appropriated on an annual basis. Because the General
Assembly has never found a funding source that is continuous, it does require another appropriation.
Unlike last year-- and this connects to your reference on the state budget and being a little bit tighter than
last year. But last year, the governor did include funding in his budget recommendation for this purpose.
This year, that is not included. So I think from what I know, that is an indication of how tight the state
budget is this year and how much room they're going to have for discretionary amounts to be able to plug
in. And I think it's just going to be a conversation with the long bill, the Joint Budget Committee, and as
outlined in the 2025 Legislative and Government Relations program, that, of course, is a priority for us
and something that we will be advocating for.
And additionally, just to note, funding from last year was enough to be able to carry the program through
January of 2026. So really, the amount of funding to keep it going all the way through, say, August of
2026 and get that full year of funding is a little less than what it was for a full year of funding in 2024. And
I'd just note that.
But yeah, you are correct. It is a tight budget year. And we will all have to work together to try to see if we
can find some find some change in the couch cushions there.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. All the more reason I'm appreciative that we were successful
in the ballot initiative that was referred for 7A with regards to our own funding.
Secretary Guzman, further questions?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: One more. We can certainly follow up on this offline. However, each area of the City
and County of Denver, as I am a Director fully located within one county, I bring this before you to ask, do
you know how we are working with the city's vision for the future? There's a Near Northwest, Near
Northeast, Near Southeast, Near Southwest, and a Central plan that have been the basis of the work of
the Denver City Council in particular.
And I am certain this is happening in other cities as well. I'm just more intimately aware of what's going on
in Denver and how that may affect, given their focus on additional dwelling units, increased transitoriented development plans, and how they are rezoning major parts of the city, particularly in the
Southeast area, near Cherry Creek and Glendale, how that is either impacting or influencing what we do
here.
And are we part of those conversations, given that in the next 10 to 20 years, or sooner, depending on
how fast they get some of this built, because the rezoning has flown through City Council, the work has
been done, so they are ready to move on it very quickly, RTD's planning, service, and delivery throughout
the city and County of Denver?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Mr. Davies, please.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Thank you, Director Guzman. Another great question.
Generally, staff at RTD does interact very closely with the Department of Transportation and
Infrastructure at the city. And often that is some of our best avenue for being able to understand what
studies are happening and what impact might potentially have for RTD.

I don't know of any direct requests with regards to those studies or the outcomes of them and translating
to a direct request for RTD related to service. But I would just say that it is certainly the intent of our
interactions with DOTI staff to essentially constantly keep the door open to those discussions.
I would just say, thank you for raising it. I will certainly look into it further and see if there is anything that
we can participate in greater. But I would also just note that those are the perfect opportunities that we
really want to align not only Denver, but any city study. Aurora is doing a large city-wide transportation.
Douglas County is doing a transportation study. Boulder County. Really want to align all of those kind of
studies with our comprehensive operational analysis process. And we'll keep working at that path.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I just have to say thank you, because that was what I was hoping to hear. And I'm
really excited to hear you say that. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for the question, Secretary. Thank you for the answers, Mr.
Davis.
Further questions for Government Relations Officer Davies at this time?
All right. Seeing none, as always, thank you for the organized report, for the advocacy, and for
coordinating on multiple fronts on the state, local, and federal level on behalf of the agency. Thank you so
much.
All right. We'll now move to our second and final discussion item, with the only remaining agenda item
after this being Other Matters. The discussion item we're moving to now is the meeting accessibility pilot
policy review. At this time, I'll ask Mr. Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager of the Board Office, to please go
ahead and present the item.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Again, Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office.
So way back in February of this year, you all approved a pilot policy with respect to accessibility that
called for the provision of CART services and that the CART services provided can be translated into
Spanish. That is to be provided at every meeting of the Board. This gave the Board Office an opportunity
to assess, over a limited time frame, the usefulness of this technology.
It was thought that there would be greater demand from the public for this. Not to say that there isn't
demand or need from the public for these services. We just did not receive any specific requests
throughout the time frame to provide CART services to members of the public. As you read out at the
beginning of every meeting, anyone who is a committee chair and the Chair of the Board reads out that
these services are available. We just didn't get much interest from the public.
That being said, there are several Directors who use it. Upwards of 20% of all current Directors are using
this service. Given that, that it is a very valuable tool to the Board, separate and apart from the pilot
policy, the Board Office has endeavored on a procurement process and has settled on an agreement with
a vendor to continue to provide CART services for the foreseeable future.
As such, this policy is set to expire at the end of this year, but in reality, the practice of continuing to
provide the service will continue. When you all approved your work plan, you asked for a revisiting of this
pilot policy in November. And that's what we're doing here. But again, the bottom line up front here is that
the practice will continue of providing CART into the foreseeable future, and there's really no further
action that the Board needs to take to ensure that for the next few years.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, for presenting that. Thank you for your work on this
and for putting forward some information about how well utilized these things are. I think that's helpful to
inform future practice. And as always, a discussion item before further action, I think is very, very helpful
and we appreciate your commitment to that.
So I'll open up for questions to Mr. Kroll regarding the policy and the outcome. Secretary Guzman, please
go ahead. You're now recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I am one of the Directors that uses the service, especially the translation
to Spanish, quite a bit, use it both in communicating after our meetings to the community about items that
were discussed, as it's already translated and I don't have to do that work again. It saves me quite a bit of
time. But also just to keep up with the meetings. Sometimes it's a median difficult conversation to have as
a non-native English speaker. And so I want to thank you for giving us the opportunity to do this.
I will say one of the troubles that I've had, I get asked a lot about the possibility of doing this, but figuring
out an easier way for folks to get that information. And despite my best efforts, I am certain that me
sharing my public allowed link, hey, here's this, you can jump on and it's accessible, does not help you
continue to figure out how many people are using it, but I know at least two of my constituents do follow
along on the Spanish translation with me.
And so it's just got to be a different way of doing that. So that's just one comment on how we do that.
Because by the time we figure out our meetings and get into it, then we've started and they're trying to
access stuff. I don't always have that CART link available beforehand, and it's too difficult when we are in
action to be able to send out an email to them, email this person and wait for a response. It didn't work
well this year.
One other thing. We had discussed the transcripts of the meetings, which is pretty awesome. I mean,
we're doing real live transcription, real-time transcription. And so it was my understanding that this was
being done by two different sources. And now by continuing this through one vendor, we will eliminate
residual cost to the agency by going with one single transcription service. Is that correct? That's really the
question I'm getting at.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Secretary. Mr. Kroll, please go ahead, sir.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, I'll just quickly respond to your first notion and comment around the availability or
the public awareness of this resource. That was something the Board had asked the Board Office to do
back in February when this was approved, was to promote this a little bit more. So now we have at the
top of the Board's website information that clearly spells out how to request accessibility services. It also
appears at the bottom of every Board agenda.
And one of the things that we have discussed internally and is something that we can consider when we
bring online a new Board packet software, hopefully within the next quarter to six months, is that we can
add some additional information with respect to the transcript streams or the CART service streams on
the actual agenda. So we would then eliminate that step of needing to reach out to us. But that's
something that's on our radar for an improvement in the future.
And then yes, correct. I think a lot of credit on your final point there, Director Guzman, goes to Board
Office staff, specifically Jillian Knapp-Rhodes and Tai-Shrae Parish, as well as Marie Snell, who came to
me earlier this year and pointed out the fact that if we paused two separate procurements that were

ongoing and combined them, we could realize some significant cost savings by having one firm take the
CART transcript and turn it into a final transcript, as opposed to having two separate transcript providers.
So a lot of credit goes to the staff on that one. And while the cost savings isn't anything that is going to
amount to even change we might pull up from underneath the sofa around here, it is nonetheless cost
savings, and I'm grateful for the staff for their good public service in that regard.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And thank you, Secretary, for the comments and the question
there. Anything further, Secretary? Great.
Any further questions or comments from Directors?
OK. Well, I certainly invite everybody to provide feedback to Mr. Kroll as it may occur to you. And Mr.
Kroll, and thank you to you and your whole team, Ms. Knapp-Rhodes, Ms. Parish, and Ms. Snell for really
working on this and pushing this forward. So thank you very much. That's been helpful this year, I know.
Thank you.
All right. Not seeing any other hands raised, we will conclude our discussion items and move into Other
Matters. Before opening up to everybody for other matters, I'd just like to note, it is with a heavy heart that
I say, this is my final Executive Committee meeting, not only as Chair of the RTD Board of Directors but
as a Director on the RTD Board. Four years, in some ways, can take a long time but also in some ways
go very quickly.
It has been a true honor and a privilege to serve this Executive Committee, to serve this Board of
Directors, to serve this agency and to serve, most of all, the public and those who utilize the system. I
think I'll save many of my comments for the Board meeting, which will be my final meeting as Chair, but
would just encourage the Directors that are continuing here and those coming in and our staff to continue
a lot of the great work, looking at how we ensure that this agency is not only successful in the short term,
but in the long term as well, how we take care of our assets, how we have a strong financial position
despite, or given whatever resources that we have available to us, and how we make sure that this is a
system that's effectively serving our customers today, tomorrow, and for generations, which is one of the
unique challenges I think we face as public servants.
And I wanted to just share something that when I was first appointed to this position and the person who
had suggested that I should put my name forward when there was a vacancy had said to me that when
you take a penny-- and that's referring to the 1% sales tax we have here-- and divide it over three million,
approximately the number of people who are in this region, it's very hard to get everybody to be happy,
everybody to get what they want.
But it's very, very important that when we take that penny and divide it up, we do so very thoughtfully and
we do so to serve the people who need us most, that we do so in a way that is responsible and ensures
that that penny goes as far as we can possibly get it without overleveraging ourselves where we will start
to struggle years ahead. This agency has been historically highly financially leveraged, and that's
because of the great ambition that we had in 2004, when the voters chose to embark on FasTracks and
to build a fairly large system.
I've been saying it a lot lately, and perhaps overstating it, but with $9 billion of fixed assets and being
around $5 billion at the net appreciation of that, we have a tremendous and great system that we've built

out and used, but we have also borrowed quite a bit of money and quite a bit of responsibility in the years
ahead to take care of those assets and make sure people can benefit from them.
There's been a lot of great work over the past couple of years at this agency to make sure that we are in
an enhanced, stable position. Several years ago, we were looking at a reality where FasTracks would
likely be running a deficit and be siphoning funds from the base system to continue forward. We're no
longer looking at that. We've done a lot of great work, I think, to while we're at that, actually be cutting
fares for the first time in agency history, introducing Zero Fares for Youth, increasing wages on the front
lines several years ago, and shoring up our pension obligations and refinancing a lot of debt.
So we have managed to stabilize this agency when many of our peers have become destabilized by the
crises we've faced, while also adopting things beneficial for customers. I ask this Board, I ask this staff to
take a moment, reflect on those successes and reflect on what's going well and continue the good work. I
think it's often really difficult for us as human beings to see that things sometimes can be bad in one area
and getting better in another area. It's always important to ask what could be better and how to double
down and really fix things and what's getting better, even if it's not where we want it to be, what's
improving, and how to double down on those investments to get that improvement to go even further.
I know we have a lot of people on staff that have the ability to really drive that forward. I know we have
that capability within this Board. I am very sad that I will no longer be a part of that journey. I will see you
out on the system and I just encourage you all to continue a lot of that good work and focus. So that
concludes comments I wanted to make in Other Matters. Thank you for indulging me and thank you very
sincerely for trusting me with the opportunity to serve you all as your Chair this year. I will miss you all a
great deal.
With that, I'll open up for any other Other Matters that folks may have. And I see Second Vice Chair
Guissinger, your hand is raised. Please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll just save some comments for the Board meeting or dinner or something, but just
couldn't let that go without saying thank you so much. We've worked closely together, and I know you
have with others on this committee and the Board, and you've brought really a level of dedication and
smarts and work that has been unmatched. And thanks so much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger, I appreciate it. It's been a privilege and will
be a highlight, I know, when I look back.
First Vice Chair Caitlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I would like to echo Director Guissinger's comments. It's been a
privilege to serve with you on this Executive Committee. Well done, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. I appreciate it. Treasurer Bouquet, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'll have quite a bit more words to give during the last Board meeting with you,
Director Davidson, but it's been an honor serving with you. And again, you took over as Chair during
some pretty chaotic times and pretty hard times. And I have to just salute you for everything that you've
done and been able to continue the stability for not only this Board, but this agency.
But I'll have a lot more words for you during our last Board meeting together. Thank you, sir.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer. I very much appreciate the sentiments. Secretary Guzman,
please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I get to put the seal on the document so I'm going to put the seal on this. Thank you.
You have been a tremendous leader in this committee and on the Board. Working with you and following
you, being able to partner with you on thoughts and get work done has been tremendous. And I don't
know how you do it some days. I'm knocked out by the time we have most of our conversations. And
somehow it's invigorating and it gets me working for another two hours and probably going to have a
caffeine cliff at some point where I won't be able to do it anymore.
But it's been awesome working with you, and I am sad to see you go. But I have you on speed dial, so if
you're ever up late and you need to have a conversation, you can also call me too.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Well, thank you, Secretary. I appreciate the sentiments. And thank you to all of you,
truly. It has been an honor. And I'm not going anywhere. I'm not leaving Colorado and love this system. I'll
be out on it and care deeply about the agency. So certainly, you all know where to find me and hope you
do find me as you desire.
Any other matters? Mr. Kroll, please go ahead, sir.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Thank you, Chair Davidson. Way back in August, the OSA put out its
recommendations relative to the performance audit it conducted this year. And one of the things that they
flagged was that the Board should focus some-- and a recommendation that we agreed to, I should add-that the Board should focus on continuing education.
You all approved your policy last month with respect to Board member orientation, onboarding, and
continuing education. And one of the things that that calls for annually is for the Board Office to survey
subject matter experts at the agency, as well as Board members, to inform the Executive Committee in
setting a roadmap for continuing education for the subsequent year.
The policy dictates that that conversation should happen at the November meeting of the executive
committee every year. Obviously, with the policy being approved at the end of October, there wasn't
enough time to survey Board members and subject matter experts for this year and have that
conversation at this meeting. However, I don't want to miss an opportunity to continue the good work
here, and I just wanted to take a moment here to let you all know that the Board Office will be surveying
the Board to get some input on continuing education topics for next year, and we'll be asking the
Executive Committee to weigh in on some of that.
We can do some of that via email, and that will provide a roadmap for next year's Board to set some
study sessions at the outset of the year for continuing education. I do want to recognize and thank-- we
did survey subject matter experts within the agency and have already received some really great
feedback. I haven't had an opportunity yet to connect with GM and CEO Johnson on the responses that
we got, so it's a bit premature to jump into those. But just to say, there's a lot of great ideas circulating on
how we can continue to educate Board members here at the agency.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for highlighting that. And thank you to you and your team for
leading the way on that. I know with the Board assessment coming forward and these opportunities to
weigh in on training, thank you leading that and I encourage all Directors to please lean into that and

engage with Mr. Kroll and his team on the items that should be there for continuing education and also
providing feedback on how to further improve the operations of the Board. Thank you, Mr. Kroll.
Are there any other matters? All right. Not seeing at this time, I'll note a few things here. So this is the last
Executive Committee meeting scheduled for this year. The next scheduled Executive Committee meeting
will be in January, 2025. There will actually be two Executive Committee meetings in January, 2025, the
first of which will be scheduled shortly after the first meeting of the year. And that will be when the
Executive Committee determines committee assignments for the year of 2025.
Thank you to everybody for participating in this meeting, as always, for the engagement in all of the
discussions and questions. I fare you well on this committee. And once again, it has been a pleasure. And
seeing no other discussion at this time, I will adjourn the meeting as of 1:44 PM Mountain Standard Time.
Please take care. Bye-bye.

