Jan 15 2019
Operations & Customer Service Committee
DOUG TISDALE: 2019 meeting of the Operations and Customer Service Committee. Be
advised that our former Chair for this Committee, Director Barbara Deadwyler, was, of course,
term limited and is no longer with us. The Vice Chair of the Committee, Director Williams, is
unavoidably detained this evening. And so it falls upon me as your Chairman of the Board to
step in.
The meeting is called to order as of 5:31 PM Mountain Standard time on Tuesday, January 15,
2019. And I believe that the record will reflect that all of the Directors are present except for
Director Williams, as previously noted, for an excused absence. And Director Catlin, our Vice
Chair, will be joining us by telephone, I believe. And let me for the sake of the record inquire at
this time, Madam Vice Chair, are you with us?
Well, in this case, silence does not give consent. I would take it that she is not yet with us, but
that she may be joining us at a later time. The first item on our agenda is the consideration of
recommended actions. I will note for the record that there are no recommended actions that have
been brought before this committee. The second item therefore on the agenda is updates. And we
begin with the service availability update. And I take it that our chief operating officer, Mr. Ford,
will take us through the service availability update.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. This is Michael Ford, the COO. I just want to give you an update
on our service availability for 2018 December. Our bus operations provided slightly over 99.64%
of all scheduled hours of bus service for 2018 December. And that's a reduction from the
previous year in 2017. As you see in your information, we were at about 124.27 hours versus '17,
which was at 626.37.
Obviously, we have done better. But the overall year was not as solid as we would like it to be.
We were over then what we had in '17 primarily because we had some issues in the beginning of
'18 with recruitment and retention and the CBA. And other things, other factors created some of
those concerns. But we're making some progress there.
This is just a general report that we normally give every month. And we're continuing to move
forward with our operators and trying to get them on board. We're slightly up a little bit of the
budget positions that we do have. 942-- or excuse me-- 945 full time. We're down about 91 in the
operator ranks. And then on the part time, we have about 137 positions budgeted, and we're at
119, down about 18.
Again, we continue to keep vigilant on these issues. But I just wanted to give you an update on
the status of December of this last month compared to the month prior-- or the year prior in
2017. And I can take any questions at this time.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Ford. And I will note that the informational
memorandum on service availability that Miss Callahan prepared is very comprehensive and
very hopeful as well. Are there any comments, questions from the Directors for Mr. Ford
regarding service availability for December 2018? If so, please indicate by selecting.
I see-- whup, now I do. There is one speaker in the queue. Director Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Mr. Ford, how is the continuous improvement
process going for recruitment and retention?
MICHAEL FORD: I think we're making some headway. We're continuing to do outreach, and
we've got another person that was hired by HR recently to be out in the community, help with
more recruitment opportunities. Our folks are involved with HR, and I do think we're making
some headway. Obviously, we have some more work to do. But over last year, I think there is
some improvement.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. And finally, could you talk about the measures that you use to
gauge the success of the continuous improvement process?
MICHAEL FORD: Retention. We can hire people, but we want them to stay. So continuing to
make sure that their needs are being met, that we're communicating, that we're helping them out.
We have buddy systems operations. We have mentoring programs. We're doing more around
communication and outreach to folks. All these efforts are really to try to ensure people feel
comfortable, that they're not lost in the morass of everything, and that they're feeling valued in
the process.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. That's all, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Director Broom, you are recognized,
sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I had a question about commuter rail. I know that's not
included in these numbers. But what does their numbers look like in terms of authorized
positions and hires? And do they have enough people available to provide service on the line?
Sunday's going to open out to Arvada.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, I'll need to get back to you on the commuter rail numbers operated by
our contractor.
BOB BROOM: Right.
MICHAEL FORD: Where they're at. I don't have those numbers with me at this point.
BOB BROOM: OK, thanks.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. Are there any other Directors who
wish to speak to the service availability topic on the agenda, the update? Hearing none, let me
note-- better late than never-- at RTD, safety is our priority and core value. And so we do remind
you that in the event there is any circumstance requiring emergency treatment that I will request
our general counsel, Rolf Asphaug, to make the 911 call. You know that there is an AED device
outside in the event that someone is experiencing something that we might call a heart attack.
You will note please that if there is an emergency requiring evacuation, please exit the way you
came into the room, out that door, up the stairs, and outside to the street where police will guide
you. If you need assistance, then please be advised that we will have trained staff capable of
assisting you as you encounter the emergency, which we hope we don't have. But now we're
official and legal on the record.
Our next update is regarding the May 2019 service change. And I am most delighted to
recognize Mr. Ford about this, particularly because of the discussion about the Southeast Rail
Extension, the SRE. Mr. Ford, you are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL FORD: All right. Thank you very much. As customary, we bring to the Board at this
time every year proposals for May service change, May '19. We are just going out for public
comment. We just wanted you to be aware of some of the highlighted changes-- or proposed
changes, I should say-- which incorporates south metro lines, the extension E, F, and R, and the
discontinuation of route 33 because of low ridership.
There's a series of information in your packets. Again, I just remind you that this is proposed at
this time. We will be having four meetings in the public hearings that will begin February 1-excuse me-- February 11 through March 8 at Lakewood West Denver, Blake Administration
Center. And I think there's one other one that Jessie will probably correct me on when he comes
up. But there will be four meetings.
And at this time, I'll have Jessie come up, and we can go through any of the proposals at this
point to clarify or get your feedback as we continue to move forward for public engagement.
And then I believe we'll be back in March to talk to you about the information that we've
uncovered and present potentially some updates to that proposal, and then get your concurrence
going forward. And if there are questions, I will be happy to answer or defer some of this to
Jessie.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. I will note first before recognizing
any other speakers that our Vice Chair of the Board is with us on the telephone at this time.
Director Catlin, are you there? Can you acknowledge? If you are saying something, you must be
on mute because we do not hear you at this time. So I'll ask again-PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Can-DOUG TISDALE: Ah, there we are.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Can you hear me now?

DOUG TISDALE: It's the little button on the left. Right. OK.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): I was on mute. I apologize.
DOUG TISDALE: That's OK. Did you wish to comment at this time? I'll call on you first.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): I did wish to comment. I noticed that there was-- excuse me.
Previous, there was things that addressed service hours, and now we have reverted back to cost.
And I was just wondering if you were going to provide some additional detail on the specific
route and the adjustments that were made to the hours as opposed to just cost on this specific
route? Or am I missing something on my printout?
JESSIE CARTER: Director Catlin, this is Jessie Carter, manager of service planning.
DOUG TISDALE: Jessie, if you can speak a little closer into the mic, please, so that-JESSIE CARTER: I have never been good at this. You are correct in noting that the information
and the bottom line lists the actual dollar amount that we are assuming. However, the hours are
available, and I can actually ship the Board a report that shows the change in the number of
hours that we are predicting at this point in time.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Thank you. It just would be consistent with what we saw the
last-JESSIE CARTER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): --go around.
JESSIE CARTER: I agree. And-PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): OK, Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: One of the things that we were trying to focus on at that point was to focus,
again, on headcount. And one of the ways that we were looking at headcount were total number
of hours divided by the average workday. And that gave us a better idea of what our change was
and how it was going to affect the number of operators needed to operate the service. So that was
a change in focus. But in future, service changes will provide both information.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Thank you. I just know that the first time I experienced the
service changes was the last go around. And I just wanted to compare kind of the change from
the last go around to this go around. But no hurry. I just would appreciate that data. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Catlin, do you have anything further you'd
like to add at this time relative to this topic?
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): No, thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Then Director Folska, then you are recognized,
ma'am.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Mr. Washington, could you give me some
feedback on the bus stop that we talked about earlier from Mississippi and Lansing, where we're
at with that?
MICHAEL FORD: I-- [LAUGHS] I don't think we talked about this. This is Michael Ford.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Isn't it Jessie Washington sitting next to you?
MICHAEL FORD: Jessie Carter.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, I'm sorry. Jessie Carter. Sorry. I can't see.
[LAUGHTER]
JESSIE CARTER: Director Folska, I believe you did speak to Michael Washington, who
actually brought up the issue to me as well. And we are still working on that. One of the biggest- and it's at Mississippi and Lansing, if I'm correct. One of the biggest challenges that we have
with that particular stop is that if we created that stop and then created a sister stop on the other
side of the street, it poses a problem because that stop is not protected by the intersection. And
the speeds along Mississippi in that section are pretty high. So it's something we're considering,
and I'd be glad to talk to you a little bit further about it offline.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, it was there, and then you moved it. Is that correct?
JESSIE CARTER: The one stop on the same side of the senior center was there. But the stop that
would be created as a sister stop was not.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, maybe we could talk to the city people or the traffic engineers and
put a crosswalk there so that the pedestrians could cross safely. And I had one other question
about Saturday and Sunday light rail service from the Inglewood station to the Minerals station. I
wasn't clear. Do we have service on those days?
JESSIE CARTER: On Saturday, Sunday, we do have service on both the southwest and
southeast lines. If you're referring to the changes that are in the May 2019 proposals, those are
changes to the W line on the west quarter. And the proposal is to reduce it to a 30 minute
headway frequency as it is on Sunday between Federal Center and the Jeff Co. Government
Center stations.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, thank you. Thank you, Chair Tisdale. That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Our next speaker in line is Director
Lubow. You are recognized.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I have a kind of general question, not about a
particular route. Have we thought of doing telephone town hall meetings? Because we have a
problem in getting people to attend some of these meetings, because it's difficult.
JESSIE CARTER: Actually, yes. That's something-- again, this is Jessie Carter, manager of
service planning and scheduling. We have considered doing that. There is a cost associated that's
fairly high in doing those.
JUDY LUBOW: I see.
JESSIE CARTER: So it's something if we were to do that on a regular basis-- as you know, we
do three changes per year, and sometimes more depending on what's going on as far as major
investments go. And the cost per telephone town hall was extremely high. I thought it was a
good idea as well, because we do reach a lot of people on those telephone town halls. The other
concern was would we be able to have the back and forth talk like we do in the public hearing?
So it would be a great add, but, again, the cost is real.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. So it's basically you've reviewed it, and it's kind of not worth it.
JESSIE CARTER: It's cost prohibitive.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Director Lubow? Thank you very much. Director Broom,
you are recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. On packet page 12, there's a heading that says "R line, Peoria
station to Lincoln station." And in the body of the paragraph, it speaks to the E line. And it's just
a little bit confusing. Could you tell me what that change is?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. And it is confusing. So the R line, the E line, and the F line with the
SRE proposal all are extended to the inner line station at Ridge Gate.
BOB BROOM: Right.
JESSIE CARTER: So a clearer way of saying that should have been extend the R line, E line,
and F line.
BOB BROOM: And they'll all have 15 minute intervals on weekends now?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. And that does mean that we will have to change the weekend service on
the R line.
BOB BROOM: Change it to what?
JESSIE CARTER: Back to 15 minute service frequency.

BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Buzek, I shouldn't do this I suppose, but we note that
there will be a number of maiden addresses tonight. That's what in the Denver law club we used
to call these. First time that a newly elected member of the Board gets to speak. So I promise I
won't do it each time, but since you're the first of the first-- so Director Buzek, you are
recognized, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I hit that button by mistake, so I've got nothing.
[LAUGHTER]
Actually is it-- I have a question for staff as it applies to route 51 Sheridan Boulevard. If staff
could maybe just email me a list of the north and southbound Sheridan stops that will continue to
exist between 75th and 112th and Stewart. So you're eliminating six. What's left? So if I can just
get a list of that, that'd be great.
JESSIE CARTER: We can absolutely do that. Again, this is Jessie Carter, manager of service
planning and scheduling. I do want to warn you though, there are a lot of stops, so it's not going
to be a small file. There are quite a few stops at-VINCE BUZEK: But just in that little catchment area, right? So what's still left? So-JESSIE CARTER: Absolutely.
VINCE BUZEK: Want to see the whole route. [LAUGHS]
JESSIE CARTER: OK. And actually, it might be better depicted in a map.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Whatever works. Thanks so much. That's all I have, Mr. Chair. Thank you very
much. And it was very exciting.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Buzek. We appreciate that. And now to
recognize our second vice chair, Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede. You are recognized, ma'am.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I too would like to have some
information on route 51 because the first part of those eliminations are in District C, which are
six going northbound and six going southbound on Sheridan between Amherst and 22nd and 26.
It's very concerning to me, as well as the 33 Platte valley being eliminated. And I know it's 55
boardings a week, which is below the standard. But I would really appreciate maybe some kind
of a meeting with the community to let them know that you were thinking about discontinuing it
so that they could have some information and maybe come up with a plan of action to increase
ridership or something.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, will do.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Rivera-Malpiede. Director Menten, you are
recognized, ma'am.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Regarding the last line, I'll need to go City of Golden. And of
course, they won't be happy and usually aren't, especially in light of the fare increase for the
year, because they feel they're treated unfairly. I'm not going to argue that point. But could you
give me a little bit of information offline, please, that I can take with me to illustrate to them why
this frequency is in the best interest of the riders in a regional aspect?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes, Director Menten. And what we'll do is-- also, I need to dig up the
service change proposal in which we actually did turn down the level of service on the W line on
Sunday. In that proposal, the initial proposal was both Saturday and Sunday. We worked with the
city of Golden and Jeff Co. County to leave Saturday, and this is just a return to that. So I think
there'll be important information to also include.
NATALIE MENTEN: I remember that conversation, yes. But it would be helpful to bring that
back up. And they will still argue against it. But has any conversation taken place up to this
moment with either city manager or any other counselors?
JESSIE CARTER: No, Director, not before bringing it to the Board.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you. If you could get that to me, I'll take care of all the rest.
JESSIE CARTER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, that's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Mihalik, you are recognized, sir.
KEN MIHALIK: It may be-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me. It may be obvious, but is the fact
that these SRE adjustments mean that the opening is going to take place prior to May?

JESSIE CARTER: I'm actually going to dodge that bullet and pass it on to our CEO and general
manager, Dave Genova.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Jessie.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Genova, take it away, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So while we do have the SRE opening-- or extension
included in the May run border, the May service changes, I'll be meeting Friday with key
members of the staff to determine what the opening day is going to be. And then we plan to
announce that soon, possibly at the milestone event that we're having next week.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. More to come. OK, thank you. That's it.
DAVE GENOVA: Yep.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. It's an excellent question, so it's appropriate that it be asked. Are
there any other Directors? And Director Catlin, I will return to you since something that any of
the other Directors said might have prompted more comment or questions on your part. Do you
have anything further for us at this time, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): No, I do not. Thank you, Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: You are very welcome, ma'am. Anything further from any director? Hearing
none, that concludes our discussion of the updates, including the May 2019 service change. Are
there any other matters that any member of the Board wishes to bring before this committee at
this time? If so, please indicate by clicking on your screen. I see no one has indicated any such
matters.
Let me therefore note for the sake of the record that the next meeting date of the Operations and
Customer Service Committee will be held on Tuesday, February 12, 2019. Unless there is further
business, going once, going twice. Then this committee stands adjourned. And we will remain in
recess for with the Chair five minutes? Let's say five minutes. And we'll reconvene this group at
6:00 PM for the next committee meeting. Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

