1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, July 2, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 6:07 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
6:03 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:06 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:03 PM
6:03 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Chair

Present
Present

6:03 PM
6:04 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Vice Chair

Present
Absent
Present

6:03 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Absent

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:07 PM
6:06 PM
6:06 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:06 PM
6:04 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Kevin Diviness, John
Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Diana Horton, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois,
Jim Starling, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Brenda Tierney, Pauletta
Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Jane Donovan, Joni Goheen, Doug Grass, Stan Gronek, Sherman
Hamilton, Douglas Howey, Jeff Irvin, Jacob Riger, Joe Triplett, Gary
Van Dorn, Bob Wilson, Hugh Wilson

B. CAC Update
Hugh Wilson, Co-chair of the Citizens Advisory Committee, briefed the Board about
their recent quarterly meeting in Westminster. He thanked Directors Hoy,
Anderson, Bagley, Lubow and Menten for attending. Hugh Wilson stated that there
were 17 CAC members in attendance. This was a midday meeting so that shows
their dedication as a volunteer group. He said this was the best attendance of any
meeting he has attended. Mayor McNally and all the City Council members from
Westminster attended. There were also several state representatives, mayoral
candidates and citizens in attendance. Hugh Wilson feels their value is in providing
a sounding board and listening board for what the citizens have to say. He shared
there were a number of comments that people in that area are frustrated as they
await action in their corridor.
Hugh Wilson explained that the Committee had not had the chance to discuss the
quarterly meeting. They will be doing this on July 17th. He shared that once they
meet, the Committee would summarize their comments and questions and come
back to the Board with another presentation.
Chair Anderson believes we need to define the technologies that will be in each
corridor; we need to separate the issue of light rail versus commuter rail. She
shared that even in the newspaper there was a headline that said light rail when it
should have been commuter rail. Chair Anderson stated that generally everything
to the north is going to be commuter rail. She feels this is one of the huge
misunderstandings in the whole north corridor. She thought it was a great meeting
and thanked all the CAC members for their service; they really did a great job.
Scott Reed said that staff did contact the reporter to have the article corrected.
Director Lubow thanked the members of the CAC for the service they are doing.
She attended the Westminster meeting and they received a lot of feedback.
Director Lubow stated some of the feedback was hostile and angry but the CAC
members did a great job of listening.
Director Tobiassen thanked the CAC members that are participating in the I-225
corridor meetings. He extended an invitation to the other CAC members to attend.

Director Tobiassen believes keeping the CAC involved in that corridor is going to be
very beneficial.
Director Daly stated he would be very interested to hear back from the CAC now
that many of the members have ridden the West line. He asked for a report on
what they think of the line, any suggestions, interpretations, etc. Hugh Wilson said
he would bring that back to the committee.
Committee Chair Hoy thanked Hugh Wilson for coming to Westminster and asked
him to share his thanks with the other members of the Committee. He was very
impressed with the turnout of the Committee. He thinks they handled the meeting
very well. Committee Chair Hoy stated that he will be very interested in the
committee’s feelings after they have had a chance to get together and discuss the
meeting.

C. Updates

• North Metro Request for Proposals (RFP) Overview
Pranaya Shrestha and Jim Starling reviewed a PowerPoint presentation with
the Board that is in the July 2, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Agenda Packet.
Pranaya Shrestha shared that staff released the North Metro Rail Request for
Proposal (RFP) on Friday, June 28 at 6:28 p.m. He explained that as part of
the process there are over 4,800 documents the team put together. They
did this in a few months whereas the Eagle P9 project took 2 years to put
together. Pranaya Shrestha shared that the team really worked hard to
incorporate the lessons learned from the Central and I-225 corridors. He
said that as the Board has heard from General Manager Washington, the RFP
stresses innovation and creativity whether it relates to doing other corridors
or extensions, providing the financial means, meeting the DBE/WIN/SBE
goals, etc. Pranaya Shrestha stated that another important aspect that staff
incorporated was sustainability from the way the design is approached all
the way to materials used. He shared that there is a pre-proposal meeting
on July 8th that staff expects most of the proposers to attend.
General Manager Washington reiterated to the Board that staff has set a
very aggressive schedule for the RFP and we are going to stick to that
schedule. He said that many Board members may be approached and asked
to slow down the schedule. General Manager Washington shared that the
same thing happened with the RFP for the I-225 line; potential bidders that
may not be ready want us to extend the various dates and deadlines. He
stressed to the Board that we will not do that; we will push ahead with this
schedule.
Director Deadwyler shared that she attended the North Metro Rail Line
Network and Information meeting back in May. She was very impressed

with the turnout of the Prime Contractors and DBE Groups. She noted one
of the things General Manager Washington said was that we would be
asking those responding to the RFP to be more innovative and add in some
of the unfinished corridors. She expressed that she does not see that in the
RFP that was released. Pranaya Shrestha explained that the RFP was
broken into three phases: phase 1 is Denver Union Station to 72nd Avenue,
phase 2 is 72nd Avenue to the end of the line, and phase 3 is the extensions.
Director Deadwyler said that she was very stunned by the phases because
she thought the extension of some of the corridors, specifically the Central
corridor, would be included in phase 1. She believes that was the
impression the constituents received at the Network and Information
meeting. Director Deadwyler asked if the contractor would have a choice in
terms of which unfinished corridors they would include in their proposals.
Pranaya Shrestha said that staff is encouraging each potential proposer to
determine the schedule and projects included. General Manager Washington
explained that we did not want to be too prescriptive to the private sector
with the RFP; we do not want to tell the contractor what to do, where to
start, etc. He stated we want to see the creativity when we receive the
proposals. He asked the Board to wait and see what comes back.
Director Deadwyler asked if the money that had been set aside for getting
the Central corridor finished would now be tied up with the RFP. General
Manager Washington stated that we do not have the money set aside to do
the Central corridor within the next 4 years; we are not using money from
anywhere else. Director Deadwyler asked to have further conversations
with staff about the RFP.
Director Lubow thanked staff for working so hard to get this RFP out so
quickly. Director Lubow asked for clarification on the bullet point related to
the RFP Scope that reads: “Includes Environmental Impact Statement (EIS)
Record of Decision project limits only”. Bill Van Meter explained that Denver
Union Station to 162nd Avenue were the limits of the EIS; the EIS only needs
to be completed for the North Metro corridor. Director Lubow asked how
the DBE and WIN goals were established for the project. Jim Starling stated
that the RFP team worked very closely with the Civil Rights department to
determine those numbers. General Manager Washington explained that
there is a formula used to determine DBE/SBE goals. The DBE formula is a
federally prescribed formula based on type of work and firms in the database
that can do that type of work. He shared that these goals are part of the
FTA audit and tri-annual review.
Director Bagley commented that often we think of phases from a time
relative perspective. Usually it would be something like phase 1 is year 1,
phase 2 is years 2-6, phase 3 is years 7-11, etc.; however, in the RFP
released it really is better defined as a part than time related.

Director Walker reiterated Director Bagley’s comments. He said it is possible
a proposer could come back with a plan to complete the extensions first.
Director Walker asked for clarification on the bullet point related to the RFP
Scope that reads: “Willing to include related stakeholder projects (nonfederal) to lock in price”. He wondered if that would be something like a
communication study, drainage project, etc. He also asked if the
understanding is that the stakeholders would pay for anything above what
RTD would normally pay. Jim Starling stated that he was correct in the
types of projects and that the cost would depend on the stakeholder.
Committee Chair Hoy said that this is good news. He asked what staff
means when they say the RFP was released. He also asked if stakeholders
have the RFP. Jim Starling stated it is an electronic distribution. Pranaya
Shrestha explained that we provide a link where any potential proposers can
access the 4,800 documents. He said that the RFP is public information so
anyone may request the link. Jim Starling told the Board if they receive any
requests they may put the person in touch with him directly.
Committee Chair Hoy stated that the Board should look to our recent
experience with the I-225 RFP to understand why we want to keep our
options open. We had one bid that went half as far as the others so we
really do not know what we might get back from this RFP. He believes we
should wait to see what the contractors can do.
General Manager Washington believes Director Bagley put the phasing issue
just right. He reminded the Board that we did this with the Eagle P3 project.
This is just a way of doing business.
Director Folska asked how many contractors have picked up the RFP. Jim
Starling said the number was between 40 and 50.

• 2013 FasTracks Public Opinion Survey Results
Pauletta Tonilas thanked the Board for allowing her to present this update.
She explained that this survey helps her team in crafting their messaging
platforms. She introduced Todd Pickton from BBC Research & Consulting
who reviewed a PowerPoint presentation with the Board that is available in
the July 2, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring Committee Agenda Packet.
Committee Chair Hoy commented that he recently saw a presentation that
had similar facts. He feels this confirms much of what he saw in tonight’s
presentation.

Director Bagley stated that his assumption is that the questions asked from
2007 through 2013 were much the same in each year. Todd Pickton stated
that if the questions were not identical they were very similar for
comparability. Pauletta Tonilas explained that some of the wording was
changed because the last survey in 2011 had a different intent but staff still
wanted the information to be comparable.
Director Folska asked for information on the sample used. She wondered if
all the surveys were conducted over the telephone and what the sample size
was. Todd Pickton explained that all the surveys were conducted over the
telephone and were a combination of land line and mobile phone numbers.
He shared that there were 800 completed surveys. Todd Pickton said that
full demographic information would be reflected in the full report given to
the FasTracks Public Information team. Director Folska thought it was very
interesting how the survey started at the big picture and how in the last
slide it was narrowed down to people’s real concerns. She asked if we are
able to build that kind of messaging going forward. Pauletta Tonilas stated
that is exactly why we have this survey. Her team will look at the data and
craft a message that really speaks to people about the benefits they will see.
Director Folska asked why we did not have Facebook or other social media
listed as a way to disseminate information. Pauletta Tonilas said that is was
on the list but it does not rank very high in how people recall getting
information and how they want to get information. She stated that does not
mean we will stop using social media; it is just not the preferred method
among the demographics captured in this particular survey.
Director Lubow thanked staff and BBC for their survey. She is concerned
about some of the findings that seem more nuanced. For example in looking
at each county’s approval of FasTracks, Boulder is significantly lower than
the others. She also noted that when you look at the impression people
have of the quality of services provided by RTD, “excellent” has gone down
significantly. Director Lubow wonders if we are looking at these nuances
and have decided we are going to do X, Y and Z. Pauletta Tonilas stated
that part of what we are already doing about Boulder is the Northwest Area
Mobility Study (NAMS); we are working with stakeholders to have public
information and input process. She also noted that this survey was done at
the end of May into early June when we had some people who were not
pleased with changes that occurred from the West line opening. She
believes this probably plays into the decrease in people responding with
‘excellent’. Pauletta Tonilas shared that when we compare our survey
results to those done by other transit agencies our results rank very high.
Director Daly commented that he is very surprised to see how people wish
to receive information; a very high percentage want to receive information
through newspapers and the mail. He asked for information on the age

demographic of the respondents. Todd Pickton explained that BBC worked
very hard to get a demographically represented sample by age, gender, etc.
but it did skew slightly older. He is working to break down the preferred
methods of communication by age and that will be reflected in the full
report.
Director Deadwyler also thanked staff and BBC for the survey. She feels it
shows a lot of what people have been telling her for the last two or three
years in terms of how they are communicated with. She believes based on
our demographics we are reaching the people that really care the most. She
noted that the older generation really likes to get a newsletter or something
in their local community papers. Director Deadwyler is hoping we can
communicate more that way.
Director Walker asked if a person who preferred the newspaper really read
the traditional printed newspaper or read it online. Pauletta Tonilas said that
newspaper articles and internet news were both included in the survey;
however, it really depends on how people answer. They could say the read
the newspaper when really they mean internet news. Director Walker stated
that he does not like the term “reduced congestion” because there are so
many things such as road projects, populations gain, etc. that create
congestion. He believes this term might be misleading to some. Todd
Pickton explained that the question was open-ended so people were not
forced into an answer; however, this meant that his team had to take the
800 responses and funnel them into what the response most represented.
He thinks it may be valuable for staff to look at the raw data. Director
Walker also asked for the percentage of completed surveys. Toss Pickton
stated that 12-15% of people contacted completed the survey. Pauletta
Tonilas shared that 800 respondents is the most we have ever had. Her
team is very happy about having 800 respondents. Director Walker noted
that surveys are very tricky; it is whoever answers the phone and is willing
to participate. He feels the results are decent but does not put a lot of stock
in it. Todd Pickton stated that there was some screening up-front to try to
balance the responses by gender, age, etc. and the results by demographics
mirror pretty closely to the demographics in the district.
Director Tobiassen asked if an electronic copy of the full report could be
provided to the Board. He also asked how staff uses the results to tweak
the Public Information programs and how they measure the success of those
tweaks. Pauletta Tonilas said she would send the full report to each
Director. She explained that staff may look at the survey by county to see
what is resonating in each area. It may be worthwhile for each project team
to push information in a different way or more frequently. Staff may try to
create a central core message that is a short, sweet and resonating
message.

Committee Chair Hoy stated that was a fascinating presentation. He
believes that as Director Tobiassen commented, there will be some
interesting things we can unveil as we dig into the data.

D. Other Matters
Director Deadwyler shared that she attended the E-470 Board meeting last week in
Director Tobiassen’s place. She found it to be a very interesting meeting. She
learned that many of the accidents on E-470 were with objects other than another
vehicle. In these cases if you slide of the road and hit a fence or sign you are
responsible for the damage.
Director Solano attended the prairie dog meeting at the Arapahoe County
Fairgrounds. He shared that this was a very contentious meeting; it was interesting
to see how the environmentalists, ranchers and farmers interacted with each other.
Director Solano feels that despite this issue we need to get the rail done; we will
try to mitigate any issues with the prairie dogs but that cannot stop us from getting
the rail finished.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 6, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

