RTD Civil Rights Committee 10-06-20
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. It looks like we are back. We were experiencing some technical
difficulties and so we do apologize for the inconvenience and appreciate you all's patience as we
were getting those things worked out.
This is the Civil Rights Committee, and I am going to call this committee to order. We are
reconvened as of 6:00 PM today.
Barbara McManus, if you could, for the record, do the roll call.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. I have Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Hi, Ms. McManus. I'm here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: First Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Director Catlin. I'm here. I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Still here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I am present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present and accounted for.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
So we do not have any recommended actions. However, we do have a presentation. And I'll just
repeat this, because I know there are folks who were not on the call.
Our presentation today is by Justin By-- or Bai, excuse me. Justin is a graduate student at CU
Boulder. As someone who doesn't drive and as someone who identifies as a person of color,
equitable public transit is an issue he is passionate about. He is a member of the United Campus
Workers Colorado union.
And I just want to remind us that the reason Justin is coming to us today is because we had had a
discussion a few months ago around our Allied Security contract. And we wanted to kick off this
conversation with being responsive to the concerns that we've heard from our operators as well
as our patrons, and exploring the possibility of forming a subcommittee around the provisions
within the contract and balancing the needs of our operators and our patrons.

While I do believe in community experts, Justin is not a transit expert. He is, however, an expert
in his experience and being a transit rider, and his expertise in equity. And so I hope we respect
him as such. And without further ado, Justin, if you might proceed.
JUSTIN BAI: Hello. Thank you, Shontel. I guess I'll start from the beginning. I'd like to just say
that it's, again, an honor to be speaking today. So I want to thank the RTD Board for listening
and considering my presentation, which is titled, "Transit Security Elsewhere." The slides start
on page 4 of the agenda packet.
If we look at page 5, we have an overview of this presentation. First, I'll start off by talking about
our transit system, RTD. Then I'll briefly go over the concept of eyes on the street, which has
been very influential in the area of urban planning. And lastly, I will be talking about three
different transit systems and what they've been doing to address the issues of reforming and
reimagining transit security.
So on the next slide, titled RTD Transit Security, if we turn to the RTD website and look at its
page on transit security, it says that officers inspect fares, discourage disruptive and
inappropriate behavior, and act as ambassadors by assisting riders who may need help navigating
the system.
So from this overview provided by RTD, we see that transit security is summarized as fulfilling
three different functions. However, I would argue that the current model of having armed
security officers is not necessarily the most appropriate for addressing these three functions.
Especially with regards to inspecting fares and transit ambassadors, other systems as we will see
later in this presentation, have seen it unnecessary to have armed personnel accomplish these
functions. Furthermore, many other transit systems are reasoning that there are other unarmed
ways in which inappropriate behavior can be addressed.
So on the next slide, we have fares on RTD. So with regard to the first point of fare inspections, I
think it's important to offer some context. In doing so, I'd like to point out that my main concern
in the presentation is one about security, not fares. But I think it's important to consider the
context of fares and what it means to have an equitable transit system at large, and points out that
RTD has the highest adult base fare, which, as we know, is $3.00, compared to other cities of
similar or larger size. This, of course, is not necessarily a perfect comparison, as the fare is
actually a three-hour cost. But I think it still bears mentioning.
So I have a couple more slides on fares. But I think we know the basics of how fares are paid. So
in the interest of time, I'll be going over this slide very briefly. The main point here is that fare
inspections are most relevant on rail, where proof of payment system is used, rather than a pay as
you enter system.
On the next slide, I have some thoughts on the MyRide card, which also I'll be going over
briefly. My main message here is that there are ways that we can make the MyRide card more
accessible for people, especially if they're looking into things like fare capping, which is
something that other transit agencies are doing.

So I have a slide about information on fare evasion. According to a report by Colorado Public
Radio, only 1.6% of riders on light rail fare evade and only 0.12% of riders fare evade on
commuter rail. So we can see that fare evasion rates are quite low. Meanwhile, studies in other
metro areas, such as Washington, DC, New York City, Portland, Minneapolis, Seattle, Los
Angeles, and Cleveland, have shown that fare enforcement disproportionately targets black and
brown people.
So I have a question here on this slide, which maybe we can talk about at the end of the
presentation, but it's about whether there has been any independent analyses of fare evasion
enforcements on RTD, as that's something I'd be interested to know about and I'm sure other
riders of RTD would be interested to know that, too.
On the next slide, I have the question, does fare enforcement actually help? So other transit
systems have had something of a reckoning when it comes to fare enforcement. The King
County Metro auditor's office in the Seattle area, for example, released a report in which they
stated they could not determine if their fare evasion tactics were actually effective. Part of the
analysis was looking at the cost of the fare enforcement model, which at the time involved
criminal charges that went through the court system, which is currently how RTD operates. But
with King County Metro, they found that the model was found to have cost around $1.7 million
per year, which included over $300,000 in court costs. Since this study was released, King
County Metro has decriminalized fare evasion, thereby reducing the strains on the court system.
On the next slide on page 12, I have this brief summary of the concept of eyes on the street,
which is a term coined by Jane Jacobs in The Death and Life of Great American Cities. The
basic idea here is that streets are safer when there is natural surveillance in the form of other
human presence. And as this quote says, "walls, fences, and padlocks all less effective at
deterring crime than a simple lit window." This theory has motivated certain transit systems to
have street vendors near stations so as to increase eyes on the street. So I think it's important to
consider if there are ways to increase national surveillance as a way to encourage safety, rather
than relying on the use of armed security.
So for the next section, I'll be looking at these three different transit systems, Bay Area, Los
Angeles, and Portland, Oregon.
So first we'll start off with Bay Area Rapid Transit, or BART, which is a transit system with a
troubled policing history. So Bay Area Rapid Transit is policed by its own police department,
known as BART PD, which made headlines in 2009 when a police officer shot Oscar Grant, an
African-American 22-year-old, at Fruitvale Station in Oakland. And even though it's been more
than a decade, the shooting of Grant is still a major point of discussion today. And just earlier
this year, one of the BART directors, Debora Allen, received criticism after brushing off
concerns about BART PD, when she said that BART PD does not murder people, given that the
officer who shot Grant was not charged for murder. And this has been a very controversial point
still to this day.
So on the next slide, we see BART attempts at reform. After the shooting of Oscar Grant, BART
made some efforts at reforms. So they created a citizen review board and an independent police

auditor. But analysis shows that biases in policing still persisted. So 60% of BART police use of
force incidents involved black riders, despite the fact that only 10% of the system's riders are
black.
And there was a recent headline of the story of a black rider who was arrested for eating a
sandwich while on a BART platform, which was a rule that was not equally enforced on the
population. So I think the main takeaway from this slide is that reforming transit security must
actually bring about meaningful change. It shouldn't just be a PR move that ultimately
accomplishes nothing.
So with that, there have been revived attempts at reforming at BART. So they have made efforts
to rely less on armed officers for policing. They made headlines when they shifted $2 million
from police to transit ambassadors, who are unarmed uniformed employees who can provide
help on stations and trains.
They've also had pretty good success with their elevator attendant program. So BART has had an
issue with having things like syringes found in the elevators, due to the opioid crisis. And instead
of using armed police officers to deal with that, they just have, I guess, unarmed human presence
to discourage inappropriate behavior. So the main takeaway from BART is that there are other
methods than armed police officers to provide eyes and ears to transit spaces.
The next slide introduces the next transit agency we're looking at, Los Angeles Metro, which has
been a system that has recently faced demands to defund their transit police. So if we look at
page 18 in the packet, we see that LA Metro is policed by a division of the LAPD. So currently,
LA Metro is facing demands to defund their transit security. And activists and community
groups are arguing that instead of investing in security, the money could be used on free fares,
better and more frequent service, and on homeless outreach workers.
So on the next slide, we see that there has been a motion by a Metro Board member which
announced that they're going to shift from a police-based approach to a community-based
approach. And some of these changes include a transit ambassador program, using alternatives to
armed law enforcement, using community stewardship of transit spaces, going back to the eyes
on the street idea, by supporting street vending and transit plazas. Also, they're looking into a
universal blue light program and education and outreach and services for unhoused individuals.
So on the next slide, we see that the motion was passed back in June. And since then, there has
been progress underway to establish a transit public safety advisory committee, which they're
currently doing through an application process. There is a link on the slide that provides the
application, to look at some of the information that they're collecting from applicants. And also,
the CEO of LACMTA announced that there is also going to be a new task force that's internal to
the system to study options for a fare-free system.
And then on the next slide, we see TriMet, which is the transit system in Portland, Oregon. And
it's really a transit system that has shown historically to have a commitment to making changes
to its policing and having an equitable system. So we see that TriMet security is provided by a
variety of personnel. So while they do have police officers from local police departments, as well

as contracted security, they have a variety of unarmed personnel, such as Ride Guides, Customer
Safety Officers, and Customer Service Representative. There's a link where you can read about
and look at all the different types of personnel. I'd also point out here that the contracted security
officers are unarmed.
So recently, TriMet has been reimagining their transit security. I'm now on page 23. So TriMet
has pledged to move $1.8 million in funding from transit police and other sources to communitybased safety programs. And part of what that meant is that they chose not to fill six police
positions and instead use that money in community-based approaches.
And as part of reimagining transit security, TriMet has been holding community-wide listening
sessions to gather feedback from riders, front-line employees, and community members on the
best approaches to providing security on the system. And they are creating a panel of local and
national experts to advise on national best practices for transit security. And they're establishing
new non-police response resources, such as mobile crisis intervention teams.
On the next slide, we see the timeline that TriMet has provided. Unlike LA Metro, their timeline
is a little bit shorter. So last month, they have convened a transit safety advisory committee,
which they're doing through [INAUDIBLE] process. And currently this month, the committee is
meeting and offering recommendations to the General Manager.
We can also see in September, they had online surveys to gather feedback from the community,
as well as virtual town halls as another method to gain feedback. I actually sat in on one of those
virtual town halls, just to listen in and see what they're doing. And it seems that they really do
have a strong commitment to listening to their constituents and ensuring that they're considering
all possibilities on what it means to have a reimagined transit security.
On the next slide, which is page 25 of the packet, I'd just like to point out that this is not new for
TriMet. They've previously had efforts to work on having an equitable transit system. So they've
had independent analyses of the fare citation process to check for any racial bias. Like King
County Metro in Seattle, they decriminalized fare enforcement by having state law changed.
They have discontinued routine fare checks by police, and they've decreased the fine for fare
evasion citation and have given violators the option of doing community service instead.
So that is, as I say on the next slide, the end of the line for this presentation. That concludes all
the material I have presented. And I will try to answer any questions that you may have. Thank
you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Mr. Bai. Really appreciate you taking the time to
provide us with this information and to give us this presentation.
I will now hand this over to our Directors. I will proceed to the Directors in alphabetical order.
And I will start with you, Director Broom, if you have any questions.
BOB BROOM: No questions. But I thought the presentation was well thought out. Thank you.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you for the presentation.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you for the presentation. Would just note that we're moving away
from that smart card, that MyRide card, toward greater use and expanded use of the mobile
ticketing. And if you had any comments about that, Mr. Bai.
JUSTIN BAI: Yeah, I think, you know, when it comes to mobile ticketing, my concern would be
just making sure that it's accessible to everyone. Because not everyone necessarily has a
smartphone. So I think mobile ticketing is a great way to increase access, but you still need to
consider if it's truly accessible for everyone.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And regarding the recommendations for activities or people,
sort of eyes on the street idea, do you find a difference between, say, dense housing, and is the
added retail activity, the added street actual presence, important? Or is it sufficient just having
enough people living near the transit?
JUSTIN BAI: So that's a great question. I think it's really about having sort of visible human
presence. So if we see buildings but they're kind of far away and maybe it's not obvious, that
does not necessarily constitute eyes on the street. But retail activity, merely just like having an
area where there's people walking around, having sufficient lighting, so people who may be
farther away can still see what's happening, I think can all contribute to that eyes on the street
idea.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks. That was interesting.
JUSTIN BAI: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Cook. No further questions for you?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, no further questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Folska. Director Folska. Director Folska-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Director Lewis. Sorry, Chair Lewis. No comment. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's OK. Thank you. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Bai, for putting this together. This was really interesting.
And I think as we move forward on this, there's a lot of-- it tells me there's a lot of, there are a lot
of resources out there, for instance, the TriMet panel getting local and national experts to advise
on national best practices. I'll be really interested to look into [BEEP] with. So this is great.
Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. I wanted to thank Mr. Bai for his presentation, giving us a lot of ideas that
we can think about for ourselves. The main thought that I have now is that we need a baseline for
Denver to understand what the policing problem is here, if any, really, what it looks like, and the
intensity. We know we had a really distressing incident a couple of years ago, but I don't know
how prevalent that is.
And I think it's really important to figure out what our problem, if we have, what they look like,
and then we can go about trying to fix it. And I love some of the ideas that were raised by other
transit organizations. So that's nice that there are people going before us. So thank you very
much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions or comments.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you for facilitating this discussion,
because I think there's a lot of really good information and it's a lot to think about, food for
thought. Appreciate the comparisons and the objective data. So I think this will definitely spark
some conversations going forward. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Director Mihalik. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to address
this.
Thank you, Mr. Bai, very much for your very hard work. You've obviously done a lot. I am
impressed that a Linguistics graduate student at CU would put this much time into looking at
transportation from his perspective.
And I do agree that it is important for this Board to follow up on the promise that we have
already made that we will do what LA Metro did, which is to form an advisory committee to
look at these issues. I think it is important, just for the sake of the record, to point out, LA Metro
did not adopt any of those recommendations that are listed in your report. LA Metro agreed to
appoint an advisory committee that will report back in 20 months on their progress.

And just because I don't want the record to be unclear about some of these things, in fact, RTD is
not the highest fare in the United States. San Francisco Muni is now a $3.00 fare. The data in
your report are several years old. San Francisco Muni is $3.00. New York MTA, the express bus
is $6.75. And the one not mentioned, of course, is BART. And BART, your ride can be,
depending upon distance, anywhere from $2.10 to $17.00.
In terms of the MyRide card usage, the problem with the quote that's given there is that that data
is also over three years old. It's when we first introduced the MyRide card. But the comment was
made earlier, I believe by Director Cook, that we are, in any event, as our chief financial officer
has reported to us, trying to migrate to a totally virtual ticketing system with mobile ticketing.
And on the fare evasion, just because I know there are some members of the fourth estate on the
call, I want it understood that the report indicated by the RTD did not conclude that it was just
1% fare evasion. If you look on the second page of that report, we reported a 4.14% fare evasion.
So as I said, all of that said just to make sure that the record is clear. I thank you for your efforts.
As I say, this is sort of the best public comment period we have ever had, where somebody
actually brought in some really good and helpful slides to make sure that we continue on with the
promise that we made several months ago.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Director Tisdale. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Yeah, that was a really interesting presentation. That kind of stuff
always gets me going.
I'll point out something else on fares, because this is my sore point, I guess. Like what Director
Tisdale said, there are more than one way to look at fare. You can look at just the cost of the fare
itself, but there are other elements that go into that.
Like for instance, Phoenix has a $2.00 fare but it's only for one direction and one trip. So they
don't offer transfers. So every time somebody steps on a bus, they have to cough up an extra
$2.00. So that pushes a transfer to $4.00, where as our transfers come with the $3.00 fare, things
like that. And it doesn't take into account peak period fares. Some of those agencies have peak
period fares, where they charge more for the rush hour period or things like that, and then the
service area, length of time, service hours, things like that that also add into that fare, but it
shows what a person can get, what a customer can get for that fare.
I am curious about what the result of BART's reforms were. So were there fewer instances of
fare evasion, or were there fewer contacts with the security officers or fewer calls for security?
JUSTIN BAI: So BART's transit ambassador program is still like very recent. It's something that
was implemented earlier this year. So I think we're still learning about the effects of that, if that's
what you were asking about.

JEFF WALKER: Yeah, yeah. OK.
JUSTIN BAI: Yeah, I think it's still a work in progress.
JEFF WALKER: OK. OK. So too soon to tell with any certainty.
And then I know Kansas City, you didn't mention Kansas City, but I'm wondering if you did any
research on Kansas City. Because-- I can't remember the exact name, I think it's KC Ride or
something-- has suspended fares through 2020. And I'm wondering if you have any information
on the experience in Kansas City.
JUSTIN BAI: While I am aware that Kansas City is a bus system that moved to being fare-free, I
haven't done research yet on what the downstream effects of that have been. But I guess in doing
this presentation, I just want to emphasize that my focus isn't necessarily on fares. It's mostly on
security and safety. And I think fares are definitely an important part of that, but it's not
necessarily my focus.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, right. It's just that a lot of contact with security is because of fares. I ride
the bus-- or I used to ride the bus pretty regularly-- and that was always a discussion that I would
see happening up at the front of the bus, when somebody didn't have exact change or any change
for the bus.
OK, that's it. Thank you for the presentation. Very informative. Thanks. That's it.
JUSTIN BAI: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have no questions. But I do appreciate the
presentation. Very thought provoking. And I look forward to more discussion on these matters.
Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also listened and learned, and I have no other
comments and no questions. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Director Williams. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Justin, thank you so much for your
presentation. I really appreciated it. And I too would like to thank you for the amount of research
that you've put into this. So thank you.
I can say that the RTD Board of Directors, after doing OUR ad hoc committee, our code of
conduct ad hoc committee, and then working with Director Lewis's resolution, we will be putting

together an ad hoc committee for this. And I'll have more details for the October 20 Operations
Committee. So this gives me a lot of stuff to go back and take a look at as well.
So thank you, Justin.
JUSTIN BAI: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
And Mr. Bai, did you have anything else that you wanted to share with some of the comments
from the Directors?
JUSTIN BAI: I don't think I have anything specific. I appreciate just being able to present.
Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Well, I do appreciate your time. I appreciate you coming and
giving us this wealth of information. And I just want to underscore that this really was a
presentation, while we had some discussions about fares, around safety and security and
reimagining safety and security. And so I'm excited to use this as a jump off point to put together
a subcommittee to dive in some of these things, and would encourage both myself and individual
Directors to continue to explore what other transit agencies are doing around this topic.
Thank you so much, Justin, for your time. We will let you go free and enjoy the rest of your
night. And we appreciate your time being here this evening.
JUSTIN BAI: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
All right. Moving on, we have three updates on the agenda tonight. Our first update is the Equal
Employment Opportunity Office update. And that will be presented by Zamy Silva. And so I will
give her the opportunity to present here.
Just a reminder for each of the speakers to state their names and titles for the record, and then to
restate them each time they are going to speak. And so Zamy, I yield the floor to you.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good evening, everyone. This is Zamy Silva, Senior
Manager of the Civil Rights Division. I'm going to talk a little bit about what Civil Rights have
been doing within the past few months through these pandemic difficult times.
We definitely have not lost momentum. We have continued to do lots of work in terms of
reinforcing training in the workplace. We have been communicating on an ongoing basis with
our external stakeholders, really trying to remain present in the community that we serve and
really remaining committed to promoting diversity and inclusion and eliminating barriers to
opportunity, as well as creating equal access and promoting an environment in the workplace
that is free of harassment and discrimination.

So if I can turn your attention to page 30 of your slide, or your packet, in terms of the EEO
office, if you can recall, earlier this year we submitted our EEO program plan to the FTA that has
since been approved by the FTA. It's over 1,000 pages, if you can recall, lots of information. We
do that every four years. So a huge accomplishment for RTD when it's approved without any sort
of additional information that we have to provide.
In terms of the requirements by the FTA we continue to train managers within 90 days of
promotion or employment with RTD. We're now going to page 31 of your packet. We did a
training with SLT. I would say it's a refresher training. But we redesigned it. The EEO manager
and I put a lot of thought into that. So we covered workplace discrimination, harassment,
unconscious bias, microaggressions. We did a high level information on EEO investigations and
trends so that senior leadership can have more information on what to prevent and what to do.
On October 21, actually, also this week, we've collaborated with our Safety and Security
department. So we're going to provide a class in ADA and EEO to them. That's something that in
the past they had to go through a separate online class. And so we're a little bit excited about
being able to provide that.
If you can go to your page 32 of your packet, on the ADA Office, lots and lots of training and
collaborations, one of them with the city and county of Denver. Throughout the RFQ RFP
process, we have collaborated with them to do a number of focus groups, meetings focused on
ADA specifically. And the last meeting we had was on August 5 of this year. And we're going to
continue to do that as well.
This year, as you may be aware, we marked the 30-year celebration of the ADA. The Public
Information team coordinated with the ADA office and put out a number of things in
remembrance of that celebration. Currently, we also have collaborated with Human Resources,
Legal, Safety and Security, as well as Labor to talk to all managers and supervisors about
reasonable accommodation. Very fitting with the pandemic. There's a number of guidance,
including by Governor Polis, as well as EEOC, pertaining to reasonable accommodation. So we
thought it was fitting and the right time to do that training with managers and supervisors.
We also have approved a reasonable modification policy and procedure at RTD that was
approved by SLT on September 18. We're going to use part of that to train all front-line
employees. We're working with Operations, Bus Operations, and I believe training will be
starting next week.
Page 33 of your packet. So I've already covered that first bullet. The second bullet here, we've
held three meetings in terms of the advisory committee for people with disabilities. Director
Williams will be talking a little bit about the last meeting we had, as she is representing the
Board of Directors on our ACPD steering committee.
And then we also streamlined the process in terms of ADA investigations. And that allows us to
see trends. That allows us to see lots of things that we can share with Operations that they can
use when they're training front-line employees.

Let's go to the next slide, packet page number 34. Let's focus a little bit about small business. As
you know, we have one of the best programs in the country. And I feel confident about saying
that. But I want to talk a little bit about some of the projects that we've been monitoring on the
operations side, such as snow removal, fixed route operations, on-call construction. These are
projects that have DBE or SBE goals, small business or disadvantaged goals.
So currently, we have 25 that have DBE goals. Just for your own awareness, DBE is required by
federal law. It's a federal mandated program. RTD is required to comply with that. So any
federally funded projects within RTD, we must look to see if there's opportunities for small
business.
SBE, 29 projects. SBE is a RTD-created program. It's a race and gender neutral program. And
we look to create opportunities for all small businesses in our community. So if you look at that
number at the bottom of the page, about 90, over $90 million on the operations and maintenance
side is going to small businesses, DBEs and SBEs.
We also have a number of contracts that is through an intergovernmental agreement with other
cities and towns that have DBE goals on them. And we are required also to monitor those
projects as we get audited by the federal government on any funding that we get from them and
we are the primary recipient of the federal funds. So again, over $12.5 million there going to
small businesses.
Next slide, packet number 35. We're still talking about FasTracks. If you can recall, in 2017 we
celebrated $1 billion being paid to small businesses. Again, $1 billion. We are now at $1.62
billion. And a lot of that is as a result of North Metro and Southeast corridor. Over 619 DBEs
and SBEs participated in FasTracks projects. Almost 3,000 of them in subcontracts.
Next slide. I'm not going to go too much into it. But earlier, I alluded to the fact that we have not
lost momentum and have been present in the community. We have been attending all of the
events. They are all virtual, as you know. We also have a number of them that we host ourselves.
And so we have to continue that partnership, partly because it is required by law that we meet
and consult with organizations in the community that work with small businesses, and partly
because it's great to continue that partnership and to reinforce that commitment from RTD's
standpoint.
And then the next slide, packet number 36, we're talking again about some of the events that we
put together. We have a great turnout. We have increased substantially our database in terms of
certification of small businesses. So lots and lots of things. This is just high level some of the
things we've been working on.
And so I know that the next slide, on packet 38, talks about Director Williams doing an update.
But I believe that the Chair will call her to do that.
With that, that concludes my presentation. And I'll be more than happy to answer any questions
that you may have.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Ms. Silva, for that presentation. I will turn it over to
the Directors and I will call you all in alphabetical order. If you have any questions, please feel
free to ask them.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Zamy. Good presentation. No questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Zamy, thank you very much for your
presentation.
I would have a suggestion in the SBE be program that you have that was created by RTD, I
would encourage you to include small businesses owned by people with disabilities. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions. Thank you and your team for all your good work, Zamy.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No questions. Thank you for the presentation.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So in the past, I've spoken out regarding some of the events that
we've attended as an organization, but some of that ties into Civil Rights department. And I'm
speaking specifically to some of the Chamber of Commerce events, the different-- there's a
variety, a long list of those, which end up to me being like $100 plate dinners. And in some of
the cases, Civil Rights would buy tables, meaning there was like 8 or 10 spots. But in the past
we'd face where perhaps not even all the seats were used.

So my question is, I see on page, I guess, 37 here, that it looks like COVID did affect those. And
just moving into the 2021 and the budget scenario that we've got, will we be eliminating-- are
these dinners eliminated from your budget, some of these memberships eliminated from the
budget?
ZAMY SILVA: Madam Chair, this is Zamy Silva, Civil Rights. May I?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Of course. Thank you.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you. Director Menten, I think that in 2021 we will have to rethink the
way that we continue our partnerships with organization. As I mentioned earlier, part of the
consultation is required by law. And one of the things that we don't want to do is only consult
with them when we need them.
And so going forward, it's important for us to remain partners and collaborate with organizations
in the community that represent small businesses while keeping in mind that we are under a very
tight financial constraint. And so we've already this year have cut significantly on that effort.
And going forward, that is something that I will definitely review with the General Manager and
will take that into consideration as we move forward.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I'm glad to hear that it's under consideration. As I've spoken out in
the past, especially when it gets to these dinners, where it might be $100 per seat for a dinner, I
just think it's, I don't know that the average citizen, the average rider, would find that to be their
ideal situation on how their taxpayer money is spent.
And so I will leave it with that. I don't know if anybody else will carry that torch on. But I think
there's different ways to communicate and collaborate, connect, without it being a $100 a plate
party, with $1,000 out here, $1,000 there, and numerous ones throughout the year.
So thank you very much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Director Menten. The good news with COVID is we
can't do it right now anyway. So we save some money. So we'll see what that connection looks
like moving forward for sure. I'm interested in it.
Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions for me tonight.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thanks very much, Madam Chair. An observation and a question.
The observation is we need to get this word out to the public in the greatest possible way, so that
people know that our words are backed up by our money. The investment in DBEs and SBEs is

just phenomenal, and I think we need to applaud ourselves so that others may perhaps join in that
applause.
The question is referring to page 32 and the reasonable modification policy. I'm wondering, have
we had a chance yet to address the question that has been presented to us many times about
allowing baby strollers to be wheeled onto the high block for boarding our light rail trains? Not a
problem, obviously, on commuter rail, because that's a level platform with the car. But on the
light rail, we have steps. And we've talked about trying to make a reasonable accommodation
there so that there would be a sharing, with obviously giving priority to those with a mobility
device, but providing some accommodation for mothers with strollers.
Can you address that, Ms. Silva?
ZAMY SILVA: Madam Chair, may I please?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Please do.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you. Director Tisdale, thank you so much for your question. We have
been working with Legal and Light Rail. I don't know if AGM of Light Rail is on. But that is one
of the topics, this week, in fact, that we're going to put on the agenda to talk to our ADA
Committee about.
Mr. Jensen, would you like to address the question? I can move forward. It's up to you.
[? BARBARA MCMANUS: ?] Oh, it's a separate question.
DAVE JENSEN: Dave Jensen, AGM, Rail Operations, if I may.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yep, please.
DAVE JENSEN: So in response to strollers on high blocks, Ms. Silva is correct. It is something
that we've been working on, making sure that we are in compliance with FTA. And we are
reluctant to say finalized, but we're getting close to being finalized with a policy that would be
able to accommodate that without interfering with access. So I think we're close to being able to
accomplish what you're asking.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir. And thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: OK, did you hear me? I just said thank you and no questions or comments.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you for the presentations, Zamy. No questions from me.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to speak to the issue that Director
Tisdale brought up when I do my report. So right now I have no questions or comments. Zamy,
that's great information. I'll speak when I give my report. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Zamy, as usual, you and your team
do outstanding work. And I can't thank you enough, particularly during this COVID crisis.
Because I know that you've been dealing with our SBEs DBEs, who have been really
traumatized through this. And I just want to say thank you. I have no questions or comments
other than that. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And thank you so much, Zamy and your team, for the
presentation. I don't have any questions. And I appreciate you taking the time to come and
deliver that presentation to us.
Our next update is actually by way of Director Williams for our ACPD, which is the Advisory
Committee for People with Disabilities. She is the Board representative on that steering
committee and will provide us with some updates.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Kate Williams, Director District A. And I
do want to revert to the original report before we go into this one, which is that that system grade
information, and I'm wondering if we can send this report directly to the Accountability
Committee, question mark.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Zamy?
ZAMY SILVA: This is Zamy. Madam Chair, may I please?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, please.
ZAMY SILVA: I think it's certainly worth discussing. And I will be more than happy to
internally discuss that with the General Manager and the General Counsel, and we can see what
we can provide there.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that.
OK. So I went to my first Advisory Council for People with Disabilities meeting in my role as a
RTD representative. I have been to the meeting before in another hat. And I was introduced to
the group, along with a gentleman who is running against me for my RTD seat. So that was an
interesting way to start out.
It's a very engaged group. I'm glad to be involved and I'm glad to be able to report back to the
rest of the members of the Board. This month, the ACPD gave ADA Hero awards to five RTD

employees. And that is something that they do on a regular basis. So that's really great that they
are recognizing RTD workers.
There was a discussion about combining this group with the ADA Paratransit Advisory Council,
which is another RTD sponsored group that works on similar issues. So I know that that is still in
discussion and may happen after the first of the year.
The interesting part is that Paul DesRocher reported on bikes on light rail. And part of that
discussion involved using the high blocks on the light rail cars. So I know that that is ongoing.
And there was a lot of interest from this group about that process.
There was also a review of the RTD's suspended service during the protests and some discussion
about that. There weren't any conclusions made that I gathered, but it was good for everybody to
take a look at why that happened and how, as it may happen again in the future.
Barbara McManus reported on the ad hoc Code of Conduct Committee and brought everybody
up to speed on that and also, at the time, on the search for Debra Johnson, which was unresolved
at that time.
Dr. William Gross gave the ADA Paratransit Advisory Council report. He is the liaison between
the two groups. And so he brings the one group up to speed on the other group all the time.
And the next meeting is going to be on November 19, where the primary topic is going to be the
16th Street Mall and what's going on with that.
So anybody have any questions or comments about that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Open it up for questions. Director Broom.
Thank you, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, Madam Chair.
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Buzek. Director Buzek? Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to say I do appreciate this interface
between the Committee and the Board. And I want to thank Director Williams for being our
representative. I think the communication will be helpful to both the Committee and to this
Board. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. Thank you. Echo the comments made.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Folska. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Sorry about that. Thank you. No comment. Thank you very much for
your input, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: You would have enjoyed it. Director Folska, you would have had a good
time there, too. There are people there that you and I know.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Beautiful. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. I wanted to thank Director Williams for taking on this role. And I agree
with Director Catlin that it is a very good thing that the Board is going to be getting regular
updates from this committee and learning more about the issues. So thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Just a question about, it's Section 3 in the minutes from the
August 20 ACPD meeting. And that is the section that talks about joining the ACPD and the
APAC together. And I may have missed commentary on that. So I apologize if that's the case.
But I am wondering, is there seem to be a consensus to do that? Does it look like it will move
forward? Were there any-- my positions folks that thought that would be a big problem, whether
Director Williams wants to comment to that would be great.
KATE WILLIAMS: I can.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, this is Director Williams. I think that both groups are interested, let me
put it that way. It's been a little hard in the last six or eight months to recruit people to
participate. Many of the people who have participated for a long time are termed out. And that's
been my feeling. I have a staff member who is participating. And so I think there is interest
between the groups. It hasn't been definitely agreed upon. But the nice part would be if the two
groups came together, then they could meet more often and they could share the information
totally.
Zamy, do you have anything else that you want to add to that?
ZAMY SILVA: Madam Chair, if I may please?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Please proceed.
ZAMY SILVA: This is Zamy Silva, Civil Rights Division. Yes. Thank you, Director Williams.
Part of what we want to do is really being transparent and efficient. So we have one group that is
solely focused on Access-a-Ride and paratransit services, and the other one is geared towards
everything else in terms of RTD and disability issues and so on and so forth. And so the idea is

to pilot this next year. There will be some meetings that the two committees will hold on their
own, and then there will be some that are joint, and then we will see how that works.
The other primary reason is because the ACPD has a steering committee which is made up of
senior level management at RTD, because the disability community wanted leadership at RTD to
be aware of the concerns that exist. And so we thought that maybe combining or having that one
steering committee serve for both external committees would probably be important and the
senior leadership also attend those meetings.
So we want to see how it works. And if it generates positive feedback at the end of next year,
then that's something that we could potentially adopt on a permanent basis going forward.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Zamy. Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Just thank you very much. Glad to hear that it sounds like
everybody's chiming in on this. So that was something I was very interested in seeing happen. So
thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair Lewis. I don't have any questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you much, Madam Chair. I concur the comments of Director Catlin
and Director Lubow. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Whitmore. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Williams and Zamy. Appreciate the information and
moving in the right direction on the communications front and very important priority. Very
good. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just want to reiterate
exactly what First Vice Chair Catlin said. Thank you so much, Director Williams and Zamy, for
doing this work.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And Director Buzek, I'll come back to you.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. My phone died. I was rushing to get it plugged back in. But I have
no questions or comments. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Sure. Thank you. Thank you so much.
Thank you, Director Williams, for your presentation. And thank you all for your questions.
Our next update is the CAC, which is the Citizens Advisory Committee. And our' presenter will
be Mr. Roger Sherman.
ROGER SHERMAN: Thank you, Director. Actually, I am just introducing Del Phillips, who is a
member of the CAC and will give the report. Both of the co-chairs are-- one is traveling, one's
mother is very ill, and neither were able to make it. So my name ended up on the agenda until we
confirmed Pastor Del. So I'll turn it over to him, if that's all right with you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's just fine. Pastor Del is good people. I'm happy to hear from him.
DEL PHILLIPS: Thank you. Thank you very much, Roger. And just as I prepare to give this
report, I want to just commend all of the Directors just to have the opportunity to listen in on this
particular issue, how you are expanding the sensitivity for RTD on issues that are impacting
people of color, minority communities, and those who are at risk even in our transit system. It's
just good to hear that, especially in light of the report that I'm asked to provide.
So I'll jump right into this. This is the CAC update report as of October 6. And I want to start
with, we have new members that joined us, joined the CDC in August. So all 17 positions are
currently filled. We have been meeting during this COVID period, virtually, of course, as you're
doing on the phone line today. We've been doing virtual video conferencing meetings.
The committee has several items that we have discussed during 2020. At the top of that list is the
LiVE program and followed by the SB-151 issue, conversations on our operator shortage and
recruiting, retention. And we've had the opportunity to meet with the interim General Manager,
Paul Ballard, and that was very informative.
And one of the things I would like to asterisk in the work that CAC has been doing is concerning
the Reimagine RTD. We've had three workshops with the team. And that work largely began
well before the COVID event. And of course, there's some things that are being augmented
because of COVID in that respect.
And on that note, we have listened to the COVID-19 response coming from RTD, the
adjustments, or, I should say, required implementations that have taken place during this period.
We've also participated in the financial overview, looking at the midterm financial plan. We've
had three meetings with the CFO present with us at CAC.

One of the ongoing conversations has been service optimization. And that's been a part of other
conversations. Whether it was the Reimagine conversation or even the LiVE program, service
optimization has been something that's been a common part of our conversation.
We were brought up to speed on the CEO and GM search with the recruiter and Barbara
McManus. We've had the report from the DRCOG coordinated transit plan, also the RTD code
of conduct, 16th Street Mall project, and the Colfax bus rapid transit project.
Some of the things that are coming up on our topic agendas include the RTD advisory
committee, with presentations by the co-chairs of Aurora, council member Crystal Murillo and
Boulder commission Elise Jones.
RTD candidates will be invited to our October meeting. They will be given three minutes each.
The Civil Rights Division overview confirmed for the November meeting. Some of the things
that I'm sure that are being discussed here will be shared in that meeting. And then new General
Manager Debra Johnson is on our invite list for our November meeting.
And then finally, other general activities include members of CAC that have testified against the
SB-151. CAC member Ben Brian serves on the advisory committee. We're excited about that.
Members organized and conducted transit experiences to introduce citizens to RTD. That's also
some work that started well before COVID. And nearly all of the CAC members have had their
opportunity to kind of be the face, representing RTD and creating those transit experiences with
the local citizens.
And then a final note in other activities, is our co-hosting of three RTD candidate forums with
the Metro Mayors Caucus and others.
And Madam Chair, that would bring to an end the update report from CAC.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Pastor Phillips. Really appreciate you and the other
members of the CAC and all the wonderful work that you all are doing.
I will open it up to the Directors to see if they have any questions. And we will proceed in
alphabetical order.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for your update. It sounds like a couple of your items have been taken
off your list, SB-151 and Reimagine, one by a pandemic and one by reasonableness. But it
sounds like you still have a lot of work to do. And thanks for all you do. Thanks. No more
questions.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Thank you for the very comprehensive update. I really appreciate it. No
questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. Thank you much.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lewis.
Thank you, Pastor Phillips. I do have a question. Are you able to elaborate on what's going on
there on the 16th Street Mall from your perspective?
DEL PHILLIPS: Well, mostly we've just been gathering or been receiving information on what
would be taking place there. And just as it has been mentioned, I think several things on our
current list have been impacted by the current status with COVID. So I don't have any real
current things that I could bring to the table at this time, unless Roger wants to kind of add
something else in.
ROGER SHERMAN: I would just add that we did have Susan Woods at a meeting-- it was two
or three months ago-- just to update the group on the process and where it was. But we weren't
asked by staff to provide any other input. Because it was kind of, I think, nearing procurement or
heading into procurement.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I'm wondering, is the pandemic impacting what's going on on the
16th Street Mall? Are they going to have to put things off and delay things? Or what's the status,
if you know anything about that?
ROGER SHERMAN: Yeah, the presentation we received was before, or right at the beginning of
the COVID outbreak. So you know, we don't have any current information of if there's been a
change in plans based on what we've all been suffering through.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Thank you. That's all, Madam Chair.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, General Manager.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Proceed.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. The schedule on 16th Street Mall is still on schedule. We're
looking at actual construction to start towards the end of the first quarter of 2021. So it's still on
schedule. And I'm not aware of any delays. And that's the most recent information I have.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Ballard.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Actually, that's quite interest-- yes, thank you, Madam Chair. That's very
interesting, Mr. Ballard. Because since there's less pedestrian activity, I would think, due to the
pandemic, maybe the construction can go a little faster.
That's all for me. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Folska.
Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much for the presentation. I'd be interested to hear the
substance of some of the things that you discussed, like the LiVE program, things like that, at
some point. But for tonight, thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. I wanted to thank the pastor for the presentation and also just comment
that it seems like there's more proactive activity on the part of the CAC, not just learning things.
And I am happy about that. And I would think that the committee members would be glad about
that, too.
So I'm just wondering if I could hear more about proactive activities and if that's something that
the CAC is interested in.
DEL PHILLIPS: Madam Chair, I could respond.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Please do, Pastor Phillips.
DEL PHILLIPS: Definitely. When the Directors would request it, we'd love to have our Chair or
representatives from CAC come in to be able to provide some more detailed information and,
just to throw out some examples, in regards to some of the responses that came in our
conversation on the Reimagine program. Also, feedback from the riding experiences that many
of our CAC members [? led. ?] So I think it would be desirable even on CAC part to have that
opportunity to dig a little bit deeper into some of those particular proactive issues.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I would love to hear it. That's all from me. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, just curious, the group is meeting by Zoom now? Or how are you-DEL PHILLIPS: Yes, that is correct, via Zoom.
NATALIE MENTEN: And are you recording the meetings?
DEL PHILLIPS: Madam Chair, I'd have to default to Roger on that.

ROGER SHERMAN: We are not recording the meetings.
DEL PHILLIPS: Ah, OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: Would it be much effort to record the meeting and post them somewhere
for us?
ROGER SHERMAN: I think it's a great idea. It just hasn't been done, but it certainly would be
easy to do.
NATALIE MENTEN: That'd be wonderful. I wouldn't want to create any additional cost. But if
it is Zoom, my understanding is that it might be easy, and if we have the bandwidth or just
simple YouTube, RTD, dash CAC or something, if that would be something easy to do, that
would be great. All right, thank you. That's it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No questions for me. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Compliments on the report. No questions. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Great comprehensive report. Director Lubow kind of touched
on the only questions that I had, and I think they were answered. Thanks for your time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't have any comments, except to say hello to Pastor Del, and it's nice to
have you here reporting, even though I'm sorry that the co-chairs are unavailable. And I
appreciate you being here to report. That's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Direct-- or Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair.
Pastor, I want to say thank you so very much to you and to the CAC for the work that you're
doing and for your partnership with the RTD Board of Directors. I think that this year has been
quite an extraordinary year, and the CAC has really stepped up to be a true partner. And I just
want to say thank you for that.

DEL PHILLIPS: Thank you. No problem.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you, Roger, and thank you, Pastor Phillips, for your time.
Really appreciate you all coming and for all the work that you all have been doing. I also don't
have any questions and will allow you all to-- well, Roger, you'll stick with us. But Pastor
Phillips, we'll allow you to get back to your nightly routine.
DEL PHILLIPS: Thank you so much. I appreciate it. You all take care.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Take good care.
DEL PHILLIPS: All right. Bye-bye.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So we do not have any information items on the agenda. Are there any other
matters that any Director would like to bring before the Board?
Hearing none, our next meeting will be sometime in 2021. And if there is no other discussion, I
will be adjourning this meeting at 7:20 PM.

