2020-11-19 GMO-GME
PEGGY CATLIN: So it is 802 Mountain Standard Time, 10:02 Pacific Time, or 10:02 Eastern
Standard Time. And I've been up since 5:30 Eastern Standard Time. So my day's half done. So
I'd like to call this meeting to order. On the call here are Directors Guissinger, Cook, Lewis,
Buzek, and Walker.
And we also have on the phone, we also have Barbara McManus, Debra Johnson, John McKay.
Our guest, John Duran, calling in, and Melanie Snider. And I see that Chair Rivera-Malpiede has
joined us. Did I miss anyone? OK.
On our agenda today that I just lost-- technology challenges here-- we first wanted to talk about
the GM evaluation criteria, discussion of I would say the limited Board feedback we got, and
then maybe some suggestions for additional criteria or metrics. And then we want to talk about
the timeline moving forward and then how it dovetails into the Board retreat and joint Board
SLT retreat. And we do want to talk a little bit about the budget for that and hiring a facilitator,
and then other matters.
So is there anything else anybody would like to address before we get started? OK. So we
received-- and John, thank you for pulling together the matrix of Board Director's comments. We
received comments from five, although I had provided some not within the construct of that
matrix.
But I think we were a little bit over the map or all over the map on this. And so I wanted to-JOHN MCKAY: Director?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes?
JOHN MCKAY: This is John. I just want to point out that that has not been distributed to the rest
of the committee. I was looking for guidance from you about that before it was sent out.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Well, then that's probably good because maybe we can take a step back.
We received feedback from five Directors. And I still think that there's some confusion about the
120 days since we're using a 120-day milestone for two separate items. One of them is Debra's
roadmap for her first 120 days to get off to a good start and off and running.
We contractually are required to come up with a set of metrics and performance criteria that we
have in our contract with Debra Johnson, and our deadline for jointly developing that is 120
days. We're not going to be evaluating Debra Johnson at the end of the 120 days. And some of
the input that I have gotten from Directors was that this is what we need to evaluate based on the
120-day plan.
And that's, in my opinion, that's not what we're trying to do. Although we can give it, if we
discuss it, we can kind of give a checkpoint or a starting point evaluation at that 120 days just to

see, hey, how is this plan going? Do you want to make some adjustments moving forward? How
do you want to go? And I'll leave it to Debra to talk about that.
But I think that there has to be a distinction. And we really want to develop some solid
leadership metrics for Debra that we can move forward for the long term. And that's what our
goal is, this committee's goal is, at the end of the 120 days. That we will be developing mutually
with Debra. Debra, your thoughts on that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, good morning, Madam Chair, and all those assembled. Just a point of
clarification because I recognize what you said, Chair Catlin, as it relates to my 120 days. I'm
doing an assessment so I can learn about the organization and ascertain what direction in which
we need to go. So I think it's germane that there's a baseline to have an understanding of what's
happening in the organization, because without that, what am I being held accountable to if we
don't know where we are? And there has to be some delineation so I have a charge in alignment
with you all in relationship to what I'm working towards.
So let me give an example. If we're talking about fostering employee engagement, that's a
strategic priority, but there should be various aspects as it relates to specific goals and which I
need to oversee as the leader of this organization, and I need to possess competencies in which to
do that. For instance, being a visionary that drives innovation or builds and leads highperforming team.
So I think there is a disconnect right now because there's intersectionality around that. So for,
instance when I talked about it would be prudent for me to do a employee engagement survey,
whether that's a straight survey, whether they're intercepts, whether focus groups whereby I can
ascertain feedback, I have to understand the perceptions, attitudes, and overall thoughts about the
organization from the employee's vantage point because if I come up with something directly or
you guys do regarding employee engagement, it will be for naught because we're not addressing
the core issue at hand.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I really appreciate that. So it is a two-step process. Other thoughts
from Directors? Chair Rivera-Malpieda, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, you know what? I agree with our general manager. But
the other part of it is that there should be measurable goals. Like, if you do do an employee
survey and you get, I don't know, x number equates to-- I'm going to just make it up-- 45% of the
employees responded back, and this is what they said, then you have a great baseline to work
from, right? If that's what we're talking about. So it's not just the goal, but there's action steps,
and they're measurable so that we all know. There's no assumptions in there. It's a pretty clear
deal. Correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair, I would say yes, because basically, we're trying to
see where we are, and there's a response rate. But when you look holistically, if people aren't
motivated and inspired to do their jobs, and say, for instance, we had a response rate plus or
minus 75%, that's reflective of the population. And then I work with the senior leadership team
and drill down to ascertain what it is that's preventing them from feeling inspired and motivated,

then the goal is to increase that by x percent. That seems manageable, and we can use that going
forward because now we've identified what the issues are, and we can circle back.
And then it's getting employees involved so they take ownership in the process. So if, in fact,
there is a-- if there's a problem around communication, well, let me know what conduits work
best for you. If you're a bus operator, for instance, should we be using the mobile data terminal,
which is a device when they log on to do their run where they can get messages? So then we can
be assured that we're providing messages to the conduit that's appropriate for that employee
demographic, as opposed to just saying on a given newsletter employees that are operators don't
have access to email.
So it can't be a cookie cutter approach. I'm talking about delving in and ascertaining what
conduits work best for the audience so we really can have some kind of dialogue with that work
segment. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Great. So I appreciate that Yes, Director Guissinger. You're mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that sounds great and very helpful. I'm just a little confused about
what that means for our process because clearly, Debra has some very objectives and some key
results in mind. And maybe a little more fleshing out of where you're going, Debra. I'm just kind
of figuring out, OK. How do we make what we're doing relevant to what you're doing there? And
maybe we start with you for getting the feedback.
PEGGY CATLIN: I completely agree. I completely agree.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, so as you all know, I've spoken with some of you all where I'm
doing this assessment. And so looking at the broad brush road map that I did, basically, I should
be completed with that within, say, the next 60 days because it stays in. So I get that feedback
and I have an understanding of what it is, then we can do an employee survey.
It won't take that long, per se. And when I say that, we can maximize the opportunities in which
to do it when I talk about operators. They'll be doing what we call a vote in reference to picking
the run. Since they have to come and do that in person, why don't we optimize on that time,
whereby we can do an employee engagement because they'll be coming in to do their pick. So
there's a way in which that can be done still in the 120 days. So when we talk about fostering
employee engagement and deducing what the issues are, that's incorporated into my initial
roadmap that I put together.
Taking into consideration that 120 days basically is 3 times 4-- is several months, there's still
opportunity in which to do that-- to come up with the goals and shouldn't be all fleshed out. But
yes, if you all would want to give me feedback, because that's important because I need to have
an understanding that we are working in some kind of alignment. And we can't do really
anything without knowing what it is because it would be unfair to me. It'd be unfair to you to
come up with some abstract goals for which you're holding me accountable to, and we don't even
know what we're dealing with. So thank you very much for the opportunity to address.

PEGGY CATLIN: Debra, thank you very much for that because that has been our struggle that
we have some abstract-- we have in the past had some abstract goals that didn't really relate to a
baseline, as you suggested. So I think that we do need to allow work on that a little bit and flesh
some of these details out, and then ask questions about what that means.
So I don't-- you know, we have-- we've had some input from five Directors about some
suggested objectives and goals. And I think many of them are along the same lines, such as the
collective bargaining agreement with the unions. And being a point person for that front and
center, I have seen a number of people that have suggested that. But there are also some other
things with community engagement and employee engagement. So those are some broad themes.
And then maybe putting more meat on the bones, as Lynn suggests, with you collaboratively I
think would work.
So I have a proposal, and the contract is that Chair Rivera-Malpieda and I, as the Chair of the
GMOC-- well, actually, are in charge of conducting this evaluation. So I suggest that maybe
offline, we work on dovetailing these two things and working iteratively to come up with
something after 120 days that reflects your general assessment of the organization and provides
some reasonable metrics and fair methods by which you can be evaluated. chair RiveraMalpiede, does that work with you?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. It does.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So I think we would like to set up a meeting fairly soon just to kind of
superimpose those two timelines and then maybe take a look at when we can plug in these
GMOC meetings so that they're not so abstract and a little bit more meaningful, Lynn, is that
kind of, or Director Guissinger, is that kind of what you-LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that sounds good.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Other folks' thoughts on this? And please, feel free to continue to
provide your thoughts and feedback as you have-- as five of you have done so far on things that
you would like to see as priorities. I see Director Buzek and then Director Lewis, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks Madam Chair. Just so I get it straight, so you and Chair RiveraMalpiede and Debra Johnson will work together on these things. Will there then be reporting
back to the GMOC committee to finalize the metrics?
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, I've looked at more iterative, Director Buzek-- I think that we're just
going to start kind of superimposing timelines and activities with Debra's 120-day assessment.
And then we will have GMOC meetings and reporting back on all of that. I just think having this
broader dialogue on a weekly basis without kind of a clear direction and a roadmap is a little bit
of a waste of time for everyone. Yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: Agreed. No, I get it now. Thanks for the clarification.
PEGGY CATLIN: You bet. OK, I have Director Lewis and then Director Cook.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually had a very similar question to Director
Buzek. Well, I had that question, so you answered it, but I just wanted to make sure I understood
the three buckets for which we were moving forward in. So you and Director or Chair RiveraMalpiede are going to work with General Manager Johnson to figure out the initial goals for
2020 based on the 120-day plan that Debra has presented to us? Is that the correct
understanding?
PEGGY CATLIN: In my mind, not exactly. What I-- because I think that would imply more of a
back room discussion. I think what we want to do is look at Debera's 120-day plan, how she
expects to get input and engage the agency over the 120 days, and then superimpose a timeline
for which the Board can engage and provide input to ultimately develop metrics. But not develop
the metrics on our own.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And that would come back to us periodically for review and for input.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK, and then I just have a quick comment. So as I was putting forth
or doing the assignment from our last conversation, I will say that I had a hard time doing so
because I didn't feel like we had identified buckets that the goals and objectives might be able to
fall under. And so I don't know at what point in the conversation that we begin to do that, but it
would be helpful for me and maybe other directors if we decided on some buckets.
So some of the examples that I was able to find from other agencies is like community
partnerships, strategic development, Board relations, leadership and culture, just to name a few.
And so it would be helpful for me because I felt like what I had provided to you was kind of all
over the place, but I didn't know where we would like to land as Board.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know what, I really appreciate that suggestion because that's exactly I
think what we're going to try and do, whether you call it buckets or a timeline by which we plug
in and identifying those buckets. We have a couple of good examples. The one you cited. I think
Director Cook is going to be talking a little bit. We have an example from Sound Transit. And
we also have an example from Pierce Transit. And I think extracting the best of those and
creating those buckets, if you will, and then superimposing a timeline with respect to those
buckets and Debra's assessment of the agency is really kind of the way I see it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Perfect. And then the last comment that I have. I really appreciate us taking
the opportunity to write within the assessment the assessing the state of the agency because I
think that does set our General Manager up for success. So I really love that approach.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. And I really appreciate you kind of defining a
little bit more clearly what it is we're trying to accomplish. Debra, would you like to respond?
And then I see that Director Cook-- I know Director Cook has done a lot of work on this, too, so
I'm anxious to hear what she says.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Yes, thank you very much, Chair Catlin and Director Lewis, for your
comments. And I agree. The only thing I would caution looking at Pierce Tranist and looking at
Sound Transit and things like that, we can use that as a guidepost, but recognizing that we may
have issues that are indigenous to our organization. And so when we talk about the broad brush
themes, I want to ensure that they're reflective of this organization because things that I'm
thinking about that I have just deduced. I had met with nearly 10 members of the Board. I have
met with all the senior leadership team and other members.
I mean, I got to tell you already, in eight days, I've probably had more than 30 meetings. And so
recognizing there are some themes already that have emerged, I'd be remiss not to share that yes,
we need to focus on exercising financial accountability. Fostering employee engagement. You
know, there are aspects around, as it relates to me reporting to all of you, Board relations and
alignment. And more so that's me as being your employee. And I know we talk about the senior
leadership team. And as I said countless times, I can't run this organization by myself, but I am
your only employee in that vein, and they work in tandem with me.
So the onus rests with me to work in alignment with you, then to direct the SLT to do what's best
for the betterment of this organization. So I just would be remiss if I didn't state that because I
think for me to move forward in this organization, that's an imperative that there's an
understanding around that. And then as it relates to the Board alignment, that's important. I don't
know if a lot of these others have that incorporated in, but more so, there needs to be the
leadership competencies that I referenced before.
So it needs to be multipronged from my vantage point because it's all encompassing and not just
tactics. Getting back to what we spoke of last week, it's not just outcomes. And so we need to
really look and make sure that it's reflective of the Regional Transportation District and not
others that we see that may be opportune, but getting the fodder within our organization
holistically and using that as a guidepost to go forward. So thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. And I think that's correct. I don't think
any of us in looking at some of these other models would want to do a plug and play or an IT
terminology, commercial, off-the-shelf technology. I think we want to tailor it our organization.
But I think the broader buckets and the definition we can flesh out with you as we move forward.
At least that's the way I see it. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thanks for making that point, Peggy, because that was exactly the
intent in finding those was to look at the structure of the performance matrix, not the particulars
of that agency versus ours. So thanks for emphasizing that. I'm still-- I want to make sure I
understand where-- so Debra's doing this great series of interviews and gathering information
and analyzing and otherwise to identify what she believes and can identify for us are key
priorities for the agency. And that becomes-- so this organizational assessment is focusing on the
organization's performance strengths, et cetera.
And then I just want to make sure I understand where sort of the Board as a whole comes in
terms of setting goals that relate to the direction we want to move. Where do those pieces get
plugged into what we set as our agencies and Debra's performance goals?

PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I think-- I'm going to answer first, but I think Debra can do it, and
Chair Rivera-Malpiede, certainly. But that's why we are talking about the Board retreat and the
SLT retreat, where based on Debra's assessment and then some of her recommended actions, as
well as some of our Board buckets and priorities, I think that can culminate at that Board retreat,
and we can develop a really meaningful set of guidelines and metrics and goals for the agency.
Thoughts on that?
SHELLEY COOK: That makes sense. Thank you. That makes sense. Absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So I guess what I would like to do, under IMBGM evaluation criteria
and we've talked a little bit about what Board feedback we've got, I really would like to
encourage directors to provide additional thoughts to the Board offices as they come to mind.
And that can certainly be factored in to our future discussion. We've talked a little bit about the
120-day plan. Debra, would you talk a little about the activities in your first eight 8 and the 120day plan? And I kind of would like a little dashboard about how you see that going. If you want
any changes in that as you work toward your assessment of the agency. If there's an area of
emphasis you want to spend more time on than others. And certainly, it would be helpful, I think,
for the Board to see how you are progressing through your plan. Do you have some thoughts on
that, Miss Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, actually, I did break it up into 30, 60, 90 days. And considering I'm
in the process of meeting individually with Board members to further understand priorities, and
as I shared with most of you assembled here, I believe I've met with you with the exception of
maybe one Board member that it's already on the calendar. But then as I go through my
assessment and meeting with union leadership, and basically, what I want to do is conduct a
SWOT analysis. The Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats holistically.
But there's other pieces of that, as I said. It's basically getting an understanding of what that is
and then develop the next steps action plan, which is, case in point, what we just talked about. So
recognizing that I have broken this down into what I need to do for the betterment of myself
leading this organization. That's really broken out into 30, 60, 90 days, which then would give an
additional 30 days to align with all of you all in relationship to what I've learned.
That's how I have envisioned this because recognizing when I talk about creating a baseline and
doing some kind of employee engagement, as I said before, that could be intercepts with
employees during the bid, or the vote as we call it here. Certain focus groups, and things like
that. So it's not going to be-- we don't have that-- in reference to just creating the baseline,
because then it would be prudent to circle back and say, what have we done since then? Does
that make sense? OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just thought we wanted to give you opportunities to kind of report back to
this. And right now, we're facing this resurgence of COVID-19.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I know.

PEGGY CATLIN: And there may be some things that emerge that maybe require a coarse
adjustment as-DEBRA JOHNSON: And that comes back to the leadership competency being flexible and agile.
SPEAKER: Yeah. Yeah, it does.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So we talked a little bit about the Board retreat and the joint Board as
SLT retreat, and the subcategories of that are budget and facilitator. I'd like to turn it over to
Barbara McManus, please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Good morning.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good morning, Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we have gathered a list of some facilitators from around the
country that we feel that would be a good opportunity for the Board to engage with. We have a
skeleton RFP that we would like to put out on the street to those folks, as well as others that our
internal procurement folks may have. They always add to that list as well.
But one of the things we really need to have a discussion about is what that budget looks like,
because although we're going to be doing this remotely, I think the perception is from some
directors that because of that, that we'll be able to do this on less of a budget than what we've
done in the past. And I don't believe that that's true. And particularly, if we're looking at some
more higher level facilitators from around the country, we may need more budget than we have
in the past.
And I wanted to get this group's opinion of that statement just so I know how to move forward
with your guidance. There may be some folks that have to drop off the list because of budget
restraints. So can I get some comments on going outside to some of those facilitators that are
higher level than what we've done in the past and what we think we would be comfortable with
budget-wise?
PEGGY CATLIN: Before I call on directors with their hands raised, can you tell us what our or
remind us what our budget was in previous years for both the Board retreat and the SLT Board
retreat?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Last year, it was-- I think it was $24,000.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And that included room rental and food and a number of those things.
But I think if we want to get a really high level of engagement and look real strategically, we
may be looking at some other talent. Is that what you're suggesting?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. I think it was pretty close to $24,000. John, correct me if I'm
wrong, but I think it was $24,000 for just the facilitator.

JOHN MCKAY: That's correct.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: So that included their time facilitating, their prep work, their interviewing,
all-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. From start to finish.
PEGGY CATLIN: --all the Board members. And then follow-up with the documentation.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. And as we spoke behind the scenes as well, the agency is in very
challenging times. And we're at a jumping off point where we can use this as an opportunity.
Debra Johnson has just started. As she said, she's on day 8. We have a new Board members that
are coming aboard. And I think that we should strengthen and move forward and take this
opportunity to look at things in a different way than we have in the past.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you. I see hands raised. I see-- Director Cook, your hand is still
raised. Did you have anything additional to add, or-- OK, never mind. So we have Directors
Buzek, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, and Director Lewis. I believe Director Lewis had her hand up
first and then Director Buzek. So Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Madam Chair. I just have a clarifying question. The $24,000 was for the
total for both of those retreats?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. So I'd like to have a conversation about both the budget, the agenda,
and what we hope to accomplish, because I think that would inform the direction that I provide
in terms of the budget. One of the things that I think we have talked about previously when it
comes to the border retreat is we aren't really sure what it is that we are hoping to be able to
accomplish.
And then when we get to the end of the retreat, we have these goals that may or may not be
helpful for our General Manager or even us as a Board. And so I would probably start with that
question before I started with a budget. Like, what do we hope to get out of this? And on that list,
who are the folks that will help us get to the outcomes that we'd hoped for during this Board
retreat?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I think that's a good point. And I think going through this process
with General Manager Johnson, we can maybe hone in on that a little bit more readily. Director
Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I agree. It's important to flesh out the goals that
we're going to have for these retreats. But whatever they are, we're going to need a facilitator to
help us through that process. And even recognizing the challenges that the agency is facing

financially, now is not the time to back down from our clear task of making significant changes
to the agency.
And we brought Debra and fought hard to get her here. We need to help her achieve all that she
can achieve. And I think having a high-level facilitator help us work our way through all this is
pretty important. So in terms of budget, I would not be opposed to increasing the budget that
we've had in the past if it gets us somebody really good and somebody that will really make us
think hard and move us forward. So what that number is, I don't know. But I guess we'll have to
see. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Dr. Buzek. Director or Chair Rivera-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, thank you. You know, I absolutely agree with Secretary
Buzek. I think we absolutely have to make sure that we have the best facilitator. Particularly
right now as we're moving forward in this new direction and under this new leadership, it would
behoove all of us to really think outside of the box. And I really appreciate Director Lewis's
questions and Second Vise Chair Cook. This is our time to really do our due diligence to see how
we want to move forward. And I think that that's going to be really crucial. Thank you, Madam
Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: I see that Director Guissinger has her hand up and Director Walker as well. I
would like to add, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, that we've taken this opportunity with hiring Debra
Johnson, and also the unfortunate circumstances of COVID and having to just kind of reset the
agency, and as you said, start afresh. Start with a clean slate.
And I think that hiring a facilitator with that in mind would be just-- not that Susan and partner,
Spero, has done a poor job, but I just think that maybe a fresh perspective in terms of a facilitator
might be what we're looking for. But that's just my thought. So I see Director Buzek has his hand
up still. Director Guissinger, Director Walker, and Debra Johnson. But Debra, did you want to
respond to that comment first?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. I would just say I appreciate all the comments brought forward
and recognizing the conversation that ensued last week regarding the retreat and how the agency
has gone about it in the past. I would just put forward to all of you for consideration, when we
qualify having a facilitator, really ask yourselves what it is that you collectively as a Board
would like to do because I see it being more than a facilitator. If we're looking to drive
performance and be innovative and do things that can help us through this point in time, it's more
than a facilitator. It's more or less a strategist who has the acumen in that realm.
Having had the opportunity to be part of retreats such as this with my sitting on a Board as well
as sitting on-- being staffed at agencies who were working with the Board in doing this, I've seen
different ways in which to do this. But one thing I want to say as we talk about the SLT part as
well, whatever we do holistically doesn't just stop there, because if we're trying to drive
innovation or we're trying to change the outlook of the organization in relationship to how we do
things, this is something that has to be continued. It's more or less the reinforcement.

So if I train you on something and I give you a manual, put it on the shelf, but everybody else I'm
working with doesn't have an understanding of it, it's going to be for naught. So it is continual as
we go forward. And so I put that out there for you all to ponder in relationship to what it is that
we're actually trying to do here, as opposed to just having a retreat. And recognizing I haven't
been part of these. So I don't know. I'm just going by what I heard last week. But recognizing
what is it that you hope to achieve, and how does that parlay into what I am being asked to do in
leading the organization? So thank you for the opportunity to share that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Debra. And I was going to ask you later, but I might ask you now
since you mentioned some of the strategic exercises you've been through previously, whether
you call them a retreat or strategic planning session. If you have any suggestions of facilitators
given that we can do this remotely, would you give those to Barbara as well if you have some
that you think are pretty-DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm smiling. Ms. McManus and I are meeting tomorrow because she did
share the list with me, and I have worked with at least I think three or four, or at least four on that
list. And there are some I think that would be better suited for this group than others. But quite
naturally, this is a solicitation, so we would put it out. But just recognizing the way in which we
do things, I think some would be better than others.
PEGGY CATLIN: Perfect. Thank you. I appreciate it. OK, we have Director Guissinger. Then
Director Walker.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. No, I appreciate Debra's comments there. And I'm trying to
think about our previous retreats that were focused on setting our goals for a year out. And we
had some concerns about that. Is that what we're trying to do? It sounds like we've got sort of a
plan to move forward with the pay and Angie to kind of kick off some of the early conversation
for this committee to be moving forward with goals.
And so yeah, where is it we're going? And how do we-- I've never loved the idea that we were
making goals in a single meeting, brainstorm sort of format. So I think an iterative process is a
better one. And you know, we don't have any sort of-- and I totally defer to Debra on this with a
ton more experience, but the agency doesn't have any sort of three-year or five-year strategic
plan. And so considering a start to some process like that might make sense. So I think, as
Director Lewis and others have said, let's figure out where we want to go and what we're trying
to do that day.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I really appreciate that. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So years ago, we did not have a Board-only or Board-focused retreat.
The three years I think we had it, I'm still scratching my head about the necessity of it other than
a venting session. I'm not seeing anything-- any benefit for it in the years or so that I've been on.
I don't think anybody else on the call except Chair Rivera-Malpiede was part of those years when
we did not have a Board-only retreat. I still don't know what the benefit is. I'm not seeing any
benefit at all. So ask yourself, is that really necessary when we can save that money from that
gathering.

The best facilitator is very subjective. I remember a couple retreats that we've had with people on
this call right now who did not like the facilitator we had, and I liked them. Widmer is who I'm
talking about. I think that was his name. Widmer.
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
JEFF WALKER: You know, so that's very subjective. So I don't know what the best facilitator
is. That's going to vary from person to person. So I guess find out, as a Board, you guys need to
identify what it is want to accomplish and then find somebody who fits that bill, somebody who
can help [AUDIO OUT].
The goals-- so back in the day when we had one advance, and they were called advances because
we made the goals in advance of the year for which those goals were set or made to address,
those goals, the identification of those goals were built up over several months, probably since
the-- my view is that since the amended budget. So we had an idea of what the money would be
like in the coming year. So the year ahead.
We knew that through the mid-term financial plan what was then the APE and the-- I can't
remember what the other name of the other document was, but the APE and the other one-- one
for the Fast Tracks, one for the base system. And also from the staff reports that we got. We
expect x population. We're seeing growth in these areas. We're expecting this amount of money.
So the retreat, or the advance, as it was called, wasn't a one-day event where we have to figure
out what those goals should be. It's an assemblage of all of the information that we've been
getting for the last six months, or a year, or four or five years. And then it's just, OK. These are
the things that we're hearing, so let's just order them.
Not every Board member was happy with it. I was fine with how it went down. Some Board
members felt that staff was driving it, which makes sense to me because staff does the actual
work. And they say, here's what we see, and we take that input, and then we make our goals. At
any rate, I guess what I'm trying to say is make sure-- and then after the goals are developed, we
complain about the goals that we put together and the tactical plan that we approve. It's always
been confusing to me.
So anyway, next year, my advice is identify what it is you want well in advance of the advance,
of the Board SLT meeting. Get rid of the Board-only retreat. You can sit at a bar and complain
about stuff, and that saves a bunch of money for the agency and staff time, also. But make sure
that whatever comes out of that Board SLT retreat is what you want because it's yours, and
you're the ones that develop it.
Things change. Things happen. That's why we have an amended budget, and we have
amendments to projects all the time. But just make sure that you own whatever the product is and

that it's what you want. I don't know if that's helpful, but it's just my observations. But just
question why you're doing these things because I'm at a loss. I've never understood, even though
I've been a part of them. I'm still at a loss why some of these things occur.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for your suggestions, Director Walker. Chair Rivera-Malpiede,
and then Director Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I want to thank Director Walker for his insight
because I absolutely agree with everything that he said. Number 1, for sure, one of the things that
I heard consistently over the years and in fact after last year was that we go away from these
really long, brain-draining experiences, and we just put up a bunch of sticky notes. And then we
vote on those sticky notes. And it felt very parochial, like there wasn't any clear feeling of what
we were expecting.
And then someone who had a brilliant idea about if we come up with the goal, then at that time,
we need to talk about how much would that goal actually cost this agency and then determine
whether we should approve something like that and move forward or go no, it's not within our
purview at this time. So that's the first thing is I think we need much more clear, attainable,
measurable outcomes as we're talking about goals. And I agree, all of them can be amended later.
That's number 1. But number 2, over this last past year, the one thing that I've learned if I have
not learned anything is that we are in unprecedented times. And I think that's going to continue.
We're going to be living in this grey, surreal world for quite some time because everything has
changed. And for me, I've been working this last year under the premise of strategy rather than
developing goals and objectives the way three, five years out because everything is changing so
rapidly and not for the good.
And I think this next year is going to be even more difficult with the resurgence of COVID. And
I think that our communities are very fragile right now. They're scared, and transit is very
vulnerable to all of these equations that are happening. And so I really do appreciate the idea of
eliminating just the Board-only retreat, and stop working in silos. And let's work together with
the Board and the city so that we can move this agency collectively, together, and proactively.
Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: So these are some things to consider. We have Director Cook, and then
Director Lewis, and then Director Guissinger. So Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. Can we just pick up on the question of whether we're
budgeting-- budgeting for-- establishing goals for 2022 at this retreat? I do feel like there's a big
disconnect between the challenges we're facing, Debra having completed her assessment, and
then meeting to interface with that, to work with that, to set the agency's direction and goals.
We are facing so much in the near term that seems like what we ought to take up. So are we
agreed? I just want to make sure that that point doesn't get lost. That we're not-- that the focus of
the retreat, at least at this point, doesn't tentatively seem to be setting our goals, as we have done
previously, for 2022. I wanted to get feedback about that because I agree with Lynn Guissinger's

point there, and also with the idea that we need to be careful about what we want to accomplish
here and use this time wisely.
There is one thought. Director Tisdale and I are going to be sending out a memo to people early
next week, I believe, with some outlines of different paths we might move with regard to our
governance structures. The committee, the standing committees, et cetera. And if there seems to
be an appetite for some larger changes, then we may need to think about the retreat in regard to
those changes. Not that they would dominate necessarily, but they would, I think, maybe require
some of the real estate at that retreat. So just food for thought there. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. We've gotten a lot of good suggestions, and I
think we need to take some time to think about those. Just because we've done it that way in the
past does not necessarily mean that's the best way moving forward. And as we look at, to use a
now worn-out phrase, pivot this organization, let's look at more of that this long-term strategic
focus as opposed to just setting goals for our budget in 2022. That's my opinion. But we've heard
a lot of good ideas here. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's-- and to Director Cook, that might be a great opportunity for us as a
Board to grapple with that instead of that being a topic with our senior leadership team, since
they should be focusing on strategy. I guess my question, I have a few of them, but I guess my
most pressing question is, where do we go from here? I've heard a few directors say, we want to
make sure that what we are trying to accomplish in the retreat, that we know that beforehand and
that we're evaluating our needs in terms of facilitators or strategic partners or whatever term we'd
like to use. That they have the skill set in the company seems to be able to deliver that.
But I guess I'm not sure if we've arrived as a Board at what it is we hope to accomplish during
our Board retreat, and if one meeting is necessary, or if we want to look at someone who can
provide us with more ongoing support to build out not only the one year goal, but three to five
years from now. So maybe we can figure out that question for each of the Board members. Like,
where do we go from here? What's most important to you?
And the way that I was thinking about it was issues and then outcomes. So for me, what is
always important is justice, equity, inclusion, and diversity. And so I would love a facilitator
who could incorporate those principles into any of the things that we are discussing throughout
that day. That's important to me. And I'm curious what might be important to you all so that we
might move forward in our discussion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. I think based on some of the ideas we've heard
here today, we can flesh that out. I don't think that's a question we can all answer today, but I
think we've heard some good ideas. Director Cook, your hand is still raised. Is that intentional? I
guess not. And Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, thanks. Yeah, I'll put in a plug for something along the lines of the
Board-only retreat because I feel like our time together-- and it's worse in the Zoom world, but
anyhow, is generally pretty tightly scripted. And I think that having a time whether it's a Boardonly retreat or sort of a series of shorter ones to sort of think bigger and more strategically and

deal with some things like what Director Cook just raised. You know, should we change our
structure to go to smaller or different committees so it would be more effective? Doing it like
that.
I think that that's an important time. And as a side benefit that comes out of it, which is
remember the parking lot or whatever it was we used, we get ideas that don't really, that-- I'll
give you two ones that we're hearing now is the dashboard that Director Cook and Director
Menten looked at. You know, there's not a place to put that. And echo passes and fairs.
I think coming up with those ideas and figuring out how to-- I mean, I, you know, as you heard,
I'm a big fan of the smaller committees that can really work on some things like that. But
figuring out how to move this forward. And I agree with Director Lewis. I would like us to start
to think more towards them some longer-term strategic thinking as one of those things. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Director Guissinger. We have Director Buzek and then Director
Walker. And then out of respect for y'all's time, it's 10:50-- it's 8:55. And I think we've got some
good ideas to move forward. And as I-- I'd like to hear from Directors Buzek and Walker and
then maybe capture some of this in a summary and some of the next steps. So Director Buzek,
please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I would agree with Director Guissinger about the
Board-only retreat. I never saw it as just a complaining session. I think we've used it to
streamline the focus on the goal setting that then happened with the senior leadership team, and it
fleshed out some interesting ideas. So I think maybe we can adjust it or streamline it or modify it
in some sense that makes us focus a little more on those types of things. But I thought it was a
good exercise. Thank you.
Thank you, Director Buzek. And perhaps with a focus on more strategic three- and five-year
rather than simply a 2022 goals for budgetary purposes, we might get some of those creative
juices flowing. Director Walker, and then I have Barbara McManus. But just a question. I see
some virtual hands raised. Director Buzek. Director Guissinger. Director Lewis, or Director-anyway. So I know to whom I need to call. Dr. Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So if the focus of the Board-only retreat were to change to-- I'm not
going to be here to benefit or detriment for it, but if it were to change to a longer term strategy
planning session, then that would be fine. That's not what it's been in my experience, or at least
not the way I viewed it. Now, we meet three or four times a month. There's plenty of opportunity
to talk about what we want what. And we have staff right there at behest. And they're listening.
And we have the public out there and reporters and everything else like that right there three or
four times a month.
I didn't see the need to spend another Saturday away from my house, my family, et cetera, to
rehash all of that stuff when we have plenty of that opportunity. What I hoped it would do was
maybe shorten the meetings that we did have on Tuesdays. That didn't work because we were
still getting out at 7-- I'm sorry, 8, 9, 10 o'clock some nights. And I think one or two times, we
went to midnight. So that was my problem.

From what I heard before I got on this Board, the reason that we had the committees up the hole,
and this is what I've heard from other boards also, members of other boards around the country,
is that there was a lack of trust. So if this Board in 2021 can build that trust, then I'm sure the
smaller committees will be a success, and then you won't have those-- everybody won't have to
attend those three meetings, four meetings a month. That'll be a big benefit to everybody's time.
And then I can see it making sense to come together twice a year in February and March to have
those longer-term goals in that one term-- that one-year goal-setting session. But the way it's
been in my experience, it hasn't worked for me, not with a 1-year-old through a 10-year-old now.
So the other thing is once you set those goals, let staff do their job. Get out of their way. If they
say, this is what we need. We need to cut these routes or add to these routes, et cetera, to me,
that's what you support. Now, like I said before and I'll always say, I live in a really transit-rich
area, so I don't have those worries that you folks in Jeff Co and Adams County and wherever else
have because I got buses every half mile from my house.
But if it's for the good of the agency, if that R-Line-- and I know we were restrict it by federal
requirements, but if staff is saying we got too much service in the R-Line because we're only
hauling 5,000 people a day and we need to use those drivers elsewhere, that's what needs to be
supported. And I'm just using that because it's low-hanging fruit. There are tons of examples. But
you've got to let staff do what we asked them to do, which is support-- which is provide service
to the agency to the best of their ability. Now, I'm running out of time on my Board, my life on
this Board, so I'm spouting more than I normally do. But that's my-- those are my observations.
That's my advice. Thank you for your time.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. We've gotten a lot of good suggestions. Barbara McManus, if you
would-BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think you're the-- we're going to let you wrap up, and then I'll try and
summarize what I heard.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK I just wanted to add as well that I have spoken to some of my
counterparts through APTA about what they do and how they move forward, particularly in
these challenging times. And a lot of what I have heard as the common theme is that when we're
doing things virtually, we have to take smaller bites. So we would normally get together one
Saturday in February and spend 3/4 of a day, and then do the same in March with SLT.
We're going to probably have to spread this over a number of days for it to be effective online. I
don't know exactly what that looks like, but that seems to be a common theme. So we probably
should be thinking about what that looks like to minimize staff time and time for the Board in
how we schedule this when we have to move forward in choosing a strategist or a facilitator.
My second item is that we do have to in some way, shape, or form take into consideration some
of the recommendations that are going to be coming out of the Accountability Committee and

what may be happening if they bring something forward in the legislative session that could
change or happen prior to us having multiple retreats or a multiple session-type retreats with
senior leadership.
And so I just wanted to throw that out there because that's part of a larger strategy that they're
trying to push forward. And I know that staff and even myself over time thought it might be
more prudent for us to do a longer-term strategic plan. And I think we have the opportunity to do
that now. We have a new General Manager. Everybody's looking to change. Whether we like it
or not, we have to change how we operate. So let's just pick it up in and use it as the opportunity
that it is Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. McManus. Speaking of small bites, I think Chair RiveraMalpiede and I will meet with Debra Johnson and just see if we can map some of this out. And
then I was speaking to Lynn Guissinger. And until we get some of this stuff maybe organized
and mapped out, it might not be beneficial to have a meeting just to hold a meeting. So we will
definitely be in touch. I definitely don't want there to be a perception that we're operating in a
vacuum. I just want to roll up our sleeves and get a little bit of work done before we spend
another hour-plus time on Teams.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: No, I didn't have anything. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, OK. I thought your hand was up.
VINCE BUZEK: I was just agreeing. I was agreeing with you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I don't see anybody else in the queue. I think Directors Lewis and Cook
had to leave. So if there are-- are there any other matters to come before this committee?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, I would just like to say Thank you to the GMOC
committee and Ms. Johnson and our staff, Ms. McManus and Mr. McKay. I think this was really,
really helpful.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I think the discussion was rich, and I-but I do think that we have some work to do as we move forward. So I look forward to really
moving this Board and this organization in a slightly different direction. Do I have a motion to
adjourn at 9:05?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek, Second Director Walker. Any opposed? Thank you all, and
be safe. Have a good Thanksgiving.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

