2022-02-17
Executive Committee Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. The Executive Committee will now come to order. We're convened as of
12:02 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you're
recognized to speak.
I'll call the roll now. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Treasurer Whitmore. I don't see Troy right now, So we'll come back for that. And Chair
Buzek, I am here.
Other Directors in attendance, I see Director Tisdale is here. Are there any other Directors? I do not see
any.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sorry, no other Directors that I see.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that.
Staff in attendance is numerous. I see our GM/CEO Debra Johnson. I see Bill Van Meter, Melanie
Snyder, Barbara McManus, Chris Quinn, Jillian Knapp-Rhodes, Tai-Shrae Parrish, Randy Hunter,
Michael Davies, and a special guest star, Jenifer Brandeberry.
And I now see Director Whitmore. Can you say here?
TROY WHITMORE: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. All Directors are in attendance.

Public comment is next. And the public comment period is a new addition to our committee agendas. And
I would like to open it to anyone who would like to address the committee. If you wish to speak and have
not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute
you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing and you will not have the opportunity to
speak this afternoon. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the committee or if any
member of the public would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board
Office at the following email address, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Our first speaker is-- Ms. McManus, anybody in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see five attendees and no hands up.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. At this point in time, I will close the public comment period and move on to the
next item. That's our recommended action item. And we've got two of them on the agenda today. One is
the 2022 Director district map adoption and the other is House Bill 22-1026 Board position.
We'll start with the first recommended action. But before I get into that, just a note to staff, before this
comes forward to the full Board, Director Riviera-Malpiede contacted me to let me know that the her
district is not designated as District C on the map. It's just a green spot and there's no letter designation
for her district. So if we could add that, because Director Rivera-Malpiede, it's an important district. So
let's add that.
In any event, what we have, the first recommended action is for the Board of Directors to adopt the
Director district map identified as alternative E, as in Edward, revised in accordance with the following
discussion as recommended by Chair Buzek and Directors Broom and Sloan. The adoption of this action
will support the agency's strategic priorities of community value and customer excellence.
Do we have a motion? Director Catlin, I see your hand raised. Is that a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: I just had a question about, do we need to approve the agenda before we go into
recommended actions? And if so, I have a minor correction to the agenda. And that is, instead of Audit
Committee Report, I believe it should say Ad Hoc Audit Committee Report.
VINCE BUZEK: Well, I did not see the approval of the agenda on our agenda. So it's a good addition.
CEO/GM Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Actually, a point of clarification, Mr. Chair. February Board Meeting Agenda Review
is item 4 on your agenda. So we've yet to get there at this juncture.
VINCE BUZEK: Ah, got it.

DEBRA JOHNSON: And then-VINCE BUZEK: Cool, makes it easier.
DEBRA JOHNSON: --to the point that Director Catlin made, I'll make the comment as it relates to her
recommendation, because it needs to be slightly modified in reference to the name of the committee.
Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, so let's hold that off, Second Vice Chair Catlin, if that's OK. We'll discuss that when
we hit topic number four.
All right. Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, I-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
MARJORIE SLOAN: --motion to approve the Director District Map adoption.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So we have a motion made by Sloan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Who's the second? Was that Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Guissinger.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. And is there any discussion on this topic? Seeing none, all members of the
Executive Committee in favor, say aye.
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: Aye.
VINCE BUZEK: Any opposed? Any opposed? I hear none. So that passes out of Executive Committee, 5
to zero.
Our second action item-- let's see what we have next.
Now the second recommended action item is for the Board of Directors to adopt a support position on
House Bill 22-1026 concerning the replacement of the income tax deduction for amounts spent by an
employer to provide alternative transportation options to employers with an income tax credit for amounts
spent by an employer for that purpose, as the bill was introduced.
Do we have a motion to move that forward?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.

VINCE BUZEK: Director Guissinger. Is there a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore. How about discussion on this? I'm sure we have some discussion,
because there are a lot of people here. Does staff want to present anything, Mr. Davies or Jenifer
Brandeberry-- is that-- any input, or are we good?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Sure, Mr. Chair and members of the committee, Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. If I could, just a quick background on this bill, House Bill 22-1026, Alternative
Transportations Options Tax Credit.
As I mentioned, just a little bit of background. This bill was vetted over the fall through a joint committee.
And the state staff wrote a report on this, largely saying there was an underutilized current tax credit
within the Colorado code. And so made the recommendation of either saying, well, the state could get rid
of this or it could improve it.
Legislators sponsoring this legislation decided that it would be a better idea to improve it, and so they've
increased the amount of the tax credit that's available for eligible expenses. And of course, expenses
such as transit passes, like our EcoPasses, are an eligible expense under this bill. And so it's an
encouraging incentive for businesses to supply those transit passes to employees.
And the other piece that we found that is helpful in here is that when researching a number of other states
that have done this, there's not a lot of data on it. And one of the pieces that this bill does have is
reporting requirements to help the state justify and collect data that can show and, as I said, justify
potential changes in the future. And with that, I'll hold and turn it over to our lobbyist, Jenifer Brandeberry,
who has been tracking this closely in the building.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that update. Ms. Brandeberry?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Just, Michael did a great job. As we like to stay in the building, good bill, vote
yes. I think the really nice thing about this, in an environment, in an election year when there's not a lot of
bipartisanship, this bill did come out of the interim committee unanimously. And it did have bipartisan
support coming out of the first committee. Not all of the Republicans on House Finance voted for it but
leadership is behind the legislation in both chambers. So it's parked in House Appropriations. And I'm
happy to answer any questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that input. Are there any questions for either Mr. Davies or Ms. Brandeberry?
Seeing none, we'll go to the vote. All in favor of moving this forward?
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: Aye.
VINCE BUZEK: Any opposed? Great. That comes out of this committee, five to zero.

One thing I failed to mention with regard to the Director District Map Adoption, it's not going to be on our
February 2022 Board agenda because of the redistricting outreach plan and so that we can allow ample
public comment. It will appear on our March Special Board Meeting, scheduled for March 8. Just so
everybody knows that.
OK. Let's move forward. So now we're going to go into the February Board meeting agenda review. And
let's start with Director Catlin again, I mean, Second Vice Chair Catlin. Can you make that comment again
with regard to the agenda?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll yield the floor to GM/CEO Johnson. She had a technical correction to my
recommendation.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. GM/CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair Buzek and Second Vice Chair Catlin. In relationship to
the draft Board meeting agenda, item 7 should read, Audit Ad Hoc Committee. And additionally, if I could
offer up as well, Mr. Chairman, that there needs to be an Executive Session added to the agenda as well.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. Thanks for both of those. Great.
So we will be adding an Executive Session to the agenda. And we're going to revise the proposed
agenda to add Ad Hoc to the Audit Committee title. Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So the Executive Session was updated and republished this morning, or
yesterday, I believe. So that your copy just might have been printed prior to the republishing. So that's out
to the public already.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, great. And so we'll revise the item 7 to read Audit Ad Hoc Committee report. That's
the only revision, I guess, we need right now. So is there a motion to move the February Board agenda,
as amended, forward to the-LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Did you have a comment first?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I did. I had another suggested amendment. In your comments, were you saying
that the redistricting will come off of this month's agenda? I think it was on there.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, there's going to be special Board Meeting on March 8, and that's when that will
appear.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And then, the next item is the approval of the legislation. And I talked with Ms.
McManus yesterday, because it seems like those major sorts of things, the redistricting and the approval
of legislation, things like that, should come up as recommended actions rather than on the unanimous
consent agenda, for the rest of the Board to discuss and for the public to hear them.

And Ms. McManus can explain kind of what she and Melanie had come up with. But I think basically they
were saying that matters that go through one of the two the Finance or Operations Committee, could go
on the unanimous consent agenda, but other things should come up as recommended actions. And of
course, this committee could move something off of that consent agenda.
But I don't know if I'd need to make a motion to that, but that would be my suggestion on this one is that
the support of the legislation come off the unanimous consent agenda and that we start to do that system
that Ms. McManus has described.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. And First Vice Chair, you and I talked about this yesterday. And as I see the
updated proposed agenda, it is now a recommended action. So it has come off-LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'm sorry, I don't have it.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I just saw that too. So it is going to be coming forward as a recommended action
so that there can be discussion. And Ms. McManus, for the Special Board meeting on March 8, with
regard to the redistricting map, that would be great to have that as a recommended action, even if it
comes out as a unanimous item, so we can talk about that as well. But for this coming month, we've got
that down as a recommended action.
Is that all you had, First Vice Chair? Your hand's still raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's all.
VINCE BUZEK: Perfect. Thank you.
OK. So now I am asking for a motion to approve the February Board agenda for the Board meeting
February 22. Is there a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved as amended.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, I've got Whitmore and Catlin. So I'll do Whitmore as the mover and Catlin as the
second. Does that sound good to you guys? Cool. All in favor, say aye.
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: Aye.
VINCE BUZEK: Any further discussion? I'm sorry, was there any further discussion after the motion? No?
Any opposed? No. OK, that comes out of this committee, 5 to zero approval.
So next we move to Other Matters. And we've got an update on the Governance Manual revision. First
Chair Guissinger and Secretary Sloan, would you guys like to provide an update, please?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You want to launch, Marjorie?

VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan, you're on mute, but we'll start with you as soon as you come off of mute.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I'm off. Sorry about that. I'll start. And I'll probably have the easier part. Thanks to
Barbara's help, we decided, after reviewing the Board Operating Guidelines and the Board Governance
Manual, Barbara suggested we divide it into two. One, just cut and paste items, updating things that have
not been. And then two, more substantive issues that the Board needs to talk about and decide on their
position.
The easy part is the first classification, the more administrative ideas, our edit the formatting in the
Governance Manual, replace outdated materials, such as the mission statement that's not in alignment
with the 2021 strategic plan. And I guess I'd suggest include both the mission and vision statements in the
Governance Manual. The committee structure and focus needs to be updated. And there are some
appendix items also that are outdated, including performance items for the GM/CEO's goal setting
evaluation process and annual review.
So Barbara suggested it would be a lot easier to get that approved rather than having red lining all over
the documents. So I really appreciate Barbara's help on that. And Barbara, would you like to mention your
intent on getting the outdated material replaced?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. I'm going to be working on that next week, to make all of those
administrative changes. In the last version of the bylaws, we did approve making administrative changes
without Board approval, as needed, just to have one less thing to bring forward.
So I will work on that document on version control, so we have a record of what the changes were made.
And from that point on, then we can move forward to the changes that Director Sloan and Director
Guissinger are suggesting as substantive changes in those documents.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Barbara. Then I will hand the baton over to Lynn to talk about proposed
languages for the item that kicked off all this discussion and review, and then I'll come back with more
minor items.
VINCE BUZEK: Lynn, you're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. How's that?
VINCE BUZEK: Much better.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The question came up originally, I think when there were a couple of meetings. One
was of the people planning the JEDI process. And then one where three Directors wanted to get together
and talk about their area, their stakeholders and constituents, roughly, I think. And There was some
question of whether that was customary for the Board. So we have provided language. We've sent it to
Ms. Snyder and Ms. Johnson for review.
But basically it says that three or more Directors could get together for an informal meeting or gathering to
discuss items that for planning or ultimately would come to the Board or are important to their

constituents, as long as they meet statutory requirements of open meetings or any other requirements
and also give other Board members email notice 24 hours before the meeting, so that others could
attend, presumably, if they want to.
So we're waiting now, unless something's come through this morning that I haven't seen, we're waiting for
a response on that. And we'll bring it back to you, I guess, when we have something final.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks. Secretary Sloan, is there something else, a follow-up from you?
MARJORIE SLOAN: There is. Other things that came up, and there certainly may be more, when we
were reviewing it, suggestions could be additional material for the governance manual, and also
incorporating the Board operating guidelines into the governance manual, so we had one document with
the expectations for Board members. Because in different ways, both the documents overlap in some
ways and could easily be melded into one.
Additional material could be, the full Board may want to discuss and agree on a description of the
difference between governance and management. Because there are two different descriptions of the
difference in trying to find the distinction between both. There's one in the governance manual and a
different one in the operating guidelines.
And possibly we could insert in the responsibilities of Board of Directors language referring to the ad hoc
committee's responsibility for the internal audit function, because that is a specific responsibility of the
Board. Another one could include the deletion of creating a responsibility to create an advisory committee
made up of former Directors who shall meet not less than once a year. In my knowledge, that has not
been a responsibility of the Board. And I'm sure there are other items that will come up, but these can be
considered more substantive changes.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you, Secretary Sloan and First Vice Chair Guissinger, for all the work you
guys are doing on this. It's a really important task. The more we can have a clean product at the end, the
better for all of us going forward.
So are there any questions for either First Vice Chair Guissinger or Secretary Sloan with regard to the
work they're doing? Thumbs up from Treasurer Whitmore. Thanks
Good work. Thank you so much for doing that.
Next, we're going to move on to the monthly Government Relations report. And just so you know, we're
going to be moving this further up on the agenda. Because it is a recurring event every Executive
Committee and part of our remit, we're going to make this a regular item further up on the agenda. But for
this month, here's where we are.
And General Manager/CEO Johnson, do you want to do the report, or have a member of your staff give
us this report?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Davies will give the report. But just point of clarification in reference to the
comment that you made, sir. I just wanted to qualify, since this is a committee and we have
recommended action and discussion items, it would be most appropriate that this would be under
discussion as we go forward. So just wanted to qualify so it's in alignment with the other committees. So
thank you very much for the opportunity to voice that.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that clarification.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Hello, Chair, members of the committee, Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer, presenting a brief Government Relations update.
I'm going to start with the federal side. So current funding for the federal government runs out tomorrow.
There is agreement, the House has already previously passed another continuing resolution that will keep
the federal government funded through March 11. The Senate is anticipated to approve that action. It is
beyond March 11, there is certainly,
It seems to be agreement among members of Congress that there's going to be a needed another
continuing resolution. It will potentially even be shorter than this continuing resolution. But I think the only
good news to report out of that is that it is short and that there has been general agreement toward the
top line numbers that you need to agree between House and Senate that allow the appropriations
committees to funnel that money through the subcommittees. And that is ultimately what is needed to
come to agreement on a larger omnibus bill. This is not me recommending that you hold your breath for
Congress to take action on this, but it is certainly a good sign that things are moving in the right direction.
And of course, it should be noted that until Congress approves a full year omnibus appropriations
package, which runs from October 1 of 2021 through September 30, 2022, you need that full year
appropriations package for the bipartisan infrastructure law funding to actually flow to agencies and be
realized by the federal government. So that is a key action that we're certainly tracking and encouraging
our congressional delegation on.
Moving on to the state, obviously closely tracking actions during the legislative session. One of the bills
that we're closely tracking we previously talked about during this meeting, the Alternative Transportation
Options Tax Credit. Another bill I just want to highlight for you that we are tracking that was more recently
introduced is House Bill 22-1138. And that is the reduce employee single occupancy vehicle trips
legislation. That's sponsored by Representative Gray, Representative Herod, Senator Winter, and
Senator Hassan. The first hearing for that bill is scheduled for Monday in the House Finance Committee.
And just a couple of quick notes that we are tracking it, but it does take a bit of a departure but does also
have similarities with the Alternative Transportations Tax Credit. While it does offer a tax credit, it offers it
only if an employee creates what they're calling a clean commute plan. That clean commute plan does
have quite a bit of other aspects other than transit passes and ride sharing, which is qualified under the
Alternatives Transportation Options Tax Credit bill.

But it also qualifies expenses such as remote working programs or parking management programs. And
so there are some other aspects of that bill that tie in and also qualify for the tax credit. There are some
additional hurdles for employers that need to report to the state and do consistent reporting to the state as
a result of being able to get that tax credit as well. I'll end there on that note.
And then just lastly on the local front, as mentioned in the report, closely tracking actions that groups like
the Metro's Mayors Caucus or DRCOG are taking on pieces of legislation and actively participating in
their meetings. And for example, the Northwest mayors and commissioners coalition, they are meeting
and do their annual trip with our federal delegation back in DC. And RTD is, of course, in partnership with
them, supporting and being a part of those meetings.
So I think that will conclude my report and happy to take any questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that report. Director Tisdale, I see your hand up.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the opportunity. I wanted to raise one
issue regarding House Bill 1026. There has been some perhaps misdescription that has come into the
discussion here. The bill would take a current tax deduction, which is something that employers take as a
reduction in their income, and turn it into a 50% tax credit, which constitutes a credit against tax owed. So
it magnifies the impact of the dollars and hence, the discussion that it's actually an increase.
But I think to the extent that we talk about deductions versus credits, it's important to remember there is
currently a tax deduction for the expense taken, and that reduces your income by 100% of the dollars that
you spend on such tax preferred activity, bus passes and so forth, turns it into a tax credit which actually
credits directly against the tax bill that you owe to the state. And so to that extent, it is an increase.
Secondly, I do want to report that yesterday I was in conversation with Ward McCarragher, who's the
chief lobbyist for the American Public Transportation Association. And the Association is going to be
taking a position and talking with leaders in Congress regarding any efforts to reduce or eliminate the
federal gas tax. Because that gas tax, as you know, is an important part of funding for the Department of
Transportation and the FTA. So that's just a heads up on where APTA is heading relative to this
discussion that you may have heard regarding reductions in the gas tax.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Are there any other questions or comments for Mr. Davies?
OK. I don't see any hands raised. So Michael, thank you very much for that report.
Anything else, any other matters to come before the Executive Committee? Well, I don't see any hands
raised. So seeing none, I will-LYNN GUISSINGER: I have one, Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Sorry. You're there--

LYNN GUISSINGER: That's all right. I was slow in getting to it. Thank you. And I talked about this
yesterday. Our bylaws say that at the beginning of the year the Board will schedule study sessions during
the year. And I think we had all our JEDI sessions, and that hasn't happened. But I think coming out of the
retreat, there may be some follow-up we want to do. There's certainly a lot of things that would be of
interest to the Board, one of which would be the really good work that the consultants and our Reimagine
team have done on TABOR, sort of the background and just the overall look at that.
I could come up with a number of things that I think would be interesting discussions for the Board. So I
would like to see us get those scheduled, maybe one a quarter moving forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Good point. Yeah, I agree with that. And now that we've got those time slots
opened up from the other matter that's not moving forward, if it was, I'll work with Ms. McManus to redo
the calendar to make sure we have a study session, just generically, at least to start with put on that
calendar.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Lynn's comment just prompted me to ask if there's an update on the status of
the retreat. We have the date scheduled
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can give that too. We have a committee. I think it's Ms. McManus and Mr. McKay,
and I think Tai-Shrae Ms. Parish and me. And we'll be meeting, I think the facilitators' responses to the
scope of work are due next Tuesday the 22nd. We'll be meeting the 25th to go-- we'll be scoring, doing
score sheets and then meeting the 25th to go through those.
And I talked to Ms. McManus about sending the scope of work out to the rest of the Board. It lists several
items that we kind of pulled from people's comments before, suggestions for the Board retreat and also
says that others could be added, or they could be substituted, if we want to after the facilitator interviews
all of the Board members.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you for that update. And thanks for your work and the team's work on
making that happen.
Any other items for discussion? Seeing none, I will declare this meeting adjourned at 12.35 PM. Thank
you, everyone, for being here. Have a great day.

