2020-10-15 GMO-GME
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. All right. So we also have on the line Barbara McManus, John
McKay, and I believe that is it. So we do have a quorum. And this is a fairly brief meeting.
I just wanted to let folks know that we completed our GMES activities. And I think it was a very
successful process. And a couple of things that I'd like to follow up with, one is kind of a
documentation of the process and a lessons learned. By no means was not a perfect process, but I
think it was a very good one. And so I would ask that we provide a document that is a lessons
learned from that.
And then the next role of this committee is really more of a General Manager Oversight
Committee process. And Barbara, I'll get to you in a second. And we put on our second hat as a
member of this committee now. And there are two components to that. One is a discussion about
Paul Ballard's seven or eight months with us. And then the second part is, as we put in the
contract with Debra, within 120 days we need to come up with a plan for her evaluation.
Barbara, did you want to chime in before I ask the Board members if they have any questions?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. I just want to let you know that we are probably 7/10 done with
the white paper document and lessons learned. We're doing some updates to the timeline because
there were so many meetings at the end, we had to just make some updates to that. And then we
will get those to the Chair and the Vice Chair of the committee to review, and then the rest of the
group once we get that to where it needs to be.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent. Barbara, if I might ask, when do you think that would happen?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We're meeting with what we have already on Monday.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So then sometime next week, I would expect.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And I guess I would hope that we would include a review of the charter
in that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, as well as the finances.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. The charter and also, just because I think we want to be pretty careful
how we go through the contract negotiation process going forward and be clear about Board
members' roles in that.
Speaking of finances, do you know about where we are in the budget, the $200,000 budget?
BARBARA MCMANUS: John, do you know where we are with that?

JOHN MCKAY: Roughly half.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. That's good. So maybe the next time we meet, we can have-- or putting
it in the white paper might suffice.
So I'd like to ask Directors if they have any questions. First, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: And thank you for participating fully in this process as an alternate. We
appreciate it.
VINCE BUZEK: My pleasure.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Could you repeat the question, please? I was looking at the email that I
might be referencing when we talk about our role as elected officials and disclosing information
before we vote. What was your question?
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to know if you had any comments about the GMES overview,
what would be contained in the white paper and going forward?
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Looking back at the beginning, where we had-- I'm going off
memory-- what did we have, maybe 30-some applicants? It was a bit challenging not being able
to mark up documents, whether that's highlighting a section of a PDF, because of our HogoDoc
setup. And so I did find that challenging.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. What I'm trying to provide is some guidance to John and Barbara as they
move forward with this white paper and maybe not detail specifically, but components that you
might want to include, because they're going to be providing us with a draft.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So being able to sit down at a table and actually mark up a
document, compare two candidates side by side, marking up, as I say, a document, I considered
that to be a challenge. And I would hope that would be noted as a component. Because when
you're flipping through many pages of a document, you can't really put them side by side.
That's my comment, I guess.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: And I shared that with John, and I shared that with, I think, Barbara, but I
know with John.
PEGGY CATLIN: So then that probably will be captured in some fashion. OK, anything else?
Anything else?

NATALIE MENTEN: Not for the white paper.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. OK, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, please. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, are you on
mute? I'll come back to you, Angie.
Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions or comments at this point. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sure. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No. No questions or comments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nothing for me.
PEGGY CATLIN: And Director Menten. Oh, I already got you, Director Menten. Sorry. Two
bites at the apple because you're on two devices, I guess.
OK. The next topic we have is the evaluation for Paul Ballard. And I have my own thoughts
about this, but I'd like to hear from other Board members first. I've also talked to Director
Guissinger about this.
And just for the record, this time slot is not good for her moving forward. She has a standing
meeting on Thursdays at this time. So I'll make sure that we work with her schedule as well.
Paul Ballard has three weeks remaining on his contract, on his stint here. And we have talked a
little bit about his goals and just how this year changed dramatically with COVID. And so I had
a couple of ideas. But I think my preference for this exercise would be to really focus on working
very hard on that document for Debra Johnson over the next 120 days and spend our energies on
that, rather than trying to create a complicated process for evaluating Paul. And I do have some
thoughts about that. But I'd like to talk to the Directors.
So I just got in chat that Director Rivera-Malpiede says that it shows that she's-- she said she
can't unmute, but we can't hear her. John, would you mind checking into that, please?
JOHN MCKAY: I will.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. So Director Buzek, your thoughts about Paul Ballard's
evaluation? And by the way, he could not make it today. I discussed this with him yesterday. He
had a previous commitment. And I said that that was fine. So I just wanted to share that with
you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I would say that unless Paul Ballard wants or
needs an evaluation, I would say we don't need to give him one. Thanks.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So the question is whether to evaluate-PEGGY CATLIN: No, it's a more open ended, it's a more open ended process, or question. I said
that I would like to see this committee focus its attention on working with Debra Johnson over
the next 120 days, or now it would be 120 whatever days to go, to develop some really sound
evaluation criteria for her, based on the contract. And I'm trying to gather input from fellow
committee members regarding their thoughts on evaluating Paul Ballard.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Well, I'm really not sure what to answer with. We have no bonus to
discuss, as far as I know. I don't know if Paul Ballard is looking for any kind of a letter of
recommendation from the Regional Transportation District, and if he is looking for an evaluation
on those three or four task goals that were laid out specifically in a email that Director Lubow
and Cook had put together. So I have those questions before I can answer.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: And as to Debra Johnson, that's a whole nother question.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's later on our agenda.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. OK. Those are my thoughts.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So right now, you're kind of agnostic on your evaluation for Paul, and
some of it resides with his preference moving forward, in terms of what he might want to take
away. Did I hear that correctly?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Since we are on the topic, let's just go to this. And perhaps Shelley
or somebody has the document right in front of them. I do not. But those three or four goals that
were in there, I believe one of them was to resolve our workforce issue. And that got resolved all
by it's own, with COVID and the drop in ridership.
One other was to lay out our financial situation. That was really a part of our normal process
anyway. We had to present a balanced budget, needs to be done by the end of December, or
December 15, whichever the date is. I think it was December 31.
What were the other goals in there? Because I think if we just kind of know they're already
checked off, I don't know if the evaluation would be-PEGGY CATLIN: N Line opening.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So sounds like we're just talking about old news and nothing is left
hanging. And it sounds like time that we don't need to spend as directors discussing that, and my
opinion is kind of history right now.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director, or Chair Rivera-Malpiede, are you off mute now? Nope. We
can't hear you. Would you like to try again? So Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I'm seeing your
microphone muted on the screen. No. So perhaps you would like to do as Director Menten does
and maybe call in. That might solve that problem, and have both devices open.
Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I agree that it's probably not important to do an evaluation of Paul at
this point. The memo that we generated I did find. And the workforce issue, the operator
shortages and dropped runs was one. Reimagine, revisiting that, evaluating its effectiveness and
speed and process. We also asked him to hold listening sessions with stakeholders, to get out into
the district. I think that was curtailed pretty significantly because of the pandemic. And then to
analyze the budget issues.
We had an attached second page that came kind of after the fact that included the N Line and
Senate Bill 151, just to put it, dot that I and T. But I agree with Vince and others that, and you,
Madam Chair, that it probably doesn't make sense to spend any time on this now. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I think it would be beneficial to future boards or auditors or anybody
who wants to get up in our business to have some kind of notes about our goals and how they
were or were not met and why they weren't met. Even though it's pretty common knowledge that
COVID messed up everything for everybody, I think it's still-- I think it would still be beneficial
to have that written down somewhere.
I also think it would be beneficial to have Mr. Ballard's opinion on how the Board operates.
Some agencies have like a governance committee that looks at the operations and functionality
and effectiveness of the Board and what can be improved or modified or changed. And since he's
got nothing to lose and nothing to gain, I think that input from him might be beneficial to the
Board members who will be on the Board and those who will stay on the Board and those who
are even going to be off the Board, like me, in whatever else I plan to do, besides watch TV with
my feet on the couch with a bag of chips. Thanks. Those are my comments.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker. Circling back, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, are you still unable
to-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm on the phone now, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So since we missed you the first go round about just the white paper and
the GMES overview, if you want to talk about that, and then talk about evaluation for Paul.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so very much. On the white paper, the only thing that
I would suggest is that there be an established time and date of the meetings. Because we had so
many meetings and they fluctuated, it became kind of cumbersome to keep up with it. It would

have been nice to have it established it at a certain day and time. Even if we put more on the
calendar to start with and then chose not to meet, I think that would've made it a little bit easier.
And then secondarily, I agree with Second Vice Chair Coo, yourself, and Director Buzek that I
see no need for an evaluation for Mr. Ballard. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Now I'm moving to Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I actually agree with Director Walker. It might be nice to have
something that we could provide to stakeholders in the event they were interested, derived from
the document that Director Cook just read from.
In terms of improvements for the meetings, I agree with Chair Rivera-Malpiede, they were kind
of all over the place. And so having that meeting cadence would most certainly be helpful, as
well as sticking to the time that we allot. When it comes to our meetings, sometimes we had two
hours on the calendar, come to meet, and we go into hours three and four. And so really sticking
to our agendas and sticking to our time that we've allotted.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. Please, who has joined us with a telephone
number with the last two digits 5-1?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's the Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, of course. Duh.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, it's me.
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually after I told you to do that. All right.
I'd like to weigh in a little bit on my thoughts about evaluating Paul. I like using the memo as a
guideline, because those were the expectations that Paul Ballard had when he was coming into
the agency. But I'm not saying that I don't want to evaluate him, but I'm thinking a simple
evaluation, such as a pass-fail or congratulations, you met all of your graduation requirements as
you move onto the next phase of your life, here's your diploma type thing. But I think it would be
good to have some sort of a documentation on Paul's stint here.
And I also think that, I also like Director Walker's suggestion that we receive some input from
him, not only on the Board, but I think I would like to get his assessment of the agency after
being here for several months and just what he feels is a strength of the agency, where he feels
we could see some improvement. I know a lot of Directors have had individual conversations
with him about these, but maybe to capture that in some sort of a going forward document.
I know he is doing that with Debra and wants to make sure that she has enough information that
she can jump in from the get go. But I think it would be nice for us as a Board to also understand
what his perspective is on that. So I just wanted to say that that was my perspective.

And as I'm looking at my screen, I realize that I still have a baby shower mylar balloon in the
background, but sorry about that.
Ms. McManus, and then Chair Rivera-Malpiede and then Director Walker.
BARBARA MCMANUS: The Directors can go first.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, I think you had your hand up first.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I don't. It's just my computer is flipping out. Sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Duly noted. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes. So something like an exit interview. I don't know if we've done that with-I don't know if we did that with Mr. Washington or Mr. Genova. But something like that to get a
full assessment of the condition, existing conditions, I guess. Thanks. That's it.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's a good way to frame it. I appreciate that. OK, Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I agree that-- I'm not a voting member, but I agree that we should
put something in the documentation. Although it's been a very upside down year and we have
been doing things differently, generally what would happen is the General Manager's evaluation
of the 2020 goals would roll down to every employee in the agency.
Now no one in the agency will be getting any bonuses or anything this year, as we all know as
well. But I think it's important that we follow through on what the obligation is, because I think
it's important to the staff to hear from the Directors as a whole in this committee how they feel
about Mr. Ballard's leadership as well as where we are as an agency with the goals that were
approved.
And it can be done, I agree, very simply. I can work with Heather and get a document on the
2020 goals. And whatever is not accomplished in 2020, when we revisit the 2021 goals we can
maybe move some of those over as needed. And we're not exactly sure what the process may
look like going forward with Ms Johnson coming in. She may have some different ideas that she
tries to bring forward to the Board.
But I do think it's important that we do some sort of a review document, however simple it is. I
know in the past, it's been very formal and it's been very cumbersome and it's had metrics
attached to it. So I agree with the simplicity of it. But I think it's important that just because this
year was upside down that we don't keep things in a little bit intact in terms of process in the past
and moving forward.
And we also, the Board Office, we're working with the Chair, we've also been working on a
proclamation for some of the accomplishments for Paul Ballard that we'll move forward
probably in-- I don't know what committee we'll move it forward in. But anyway, we'll move it
forward for Board approval, and hopefully give that, we're getting a plaque through marketing,

much like we did for Phil Washington and Dave Genova when they left. We're preparing this
proclamation from the Board.
And we're also going to give Paul-- we've requested a second copy of the proclamation from the
governor for the opening of the N Line. So I just wanted to put that out there that that is
happening in the background as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Barbara. It would be nice actually to see what you and the Chair
have been working on in terms of maybe bullet items that we can put in our evaluation. That
would be excellent.
BARBARA MCMANUS: They pretty much mirror what we just were speaking about.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. For the record, Director Whitmore has joined us. Welcomes, Director
Whitmore.
We are just finishing up item C, which is the evaluation for Paul Ballard. And I think what I'm
hearing from individual Board members is that we do something that's fairly simple, not as
cumbersome as what we've done in the past, that this year has been so different than what we'd
envisioned when we set out the 2020 goals, and that there were a number of things that Directors
Cook and Lubow had outlined in their email to Paul prior to him starting after our Board retreat,
and that we might want to use that as a guide. And I'm thinking of something simple, like a passfail or a, I jokingly said [AUDIO OUT].
But I think that we do want to memorialize something for the record, for audit and that type of
thing.
Director Cook, I see your hand up. Did you have a comment?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you. I actually thought the idea of the exit interview that
Director Walker had suggested and that approach, attaching notes to kind of memorialize or note
what had gone on, I'm worried we may do a disservice if we try to call it an evaluation without
going through a process that's more inclusive or something.
So I wanted to suggest that as the framing, instead of as a pass-fail or rating him in those ways.
Just attach notes, that document, the extraordinary circumstance, and then conclude with an exit
interview. That was a really good suggestion that you and he had about getting Paul's thoughts as
kind of evaluation on things.
So that's my two bits there.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. Any other Board members have comments
regarding that?
OK, I'll work with Barbara and Chair Rivera-Malpiede to maybe put together a framework and
share with you all.

Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I just wanted to say that I agreed with the process Director Cook just
outlined, and I think Director Walker as well. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek.
Now I'm seeing a couple of other hands raised, and I don't know if they're intended or if they are
residual from previous comments. So I see Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I just can't get my hand down.
PEGGY CATLIN: Understood. Just wanted to make sure I checked.
OK. So I think we have a consensus of moving forward in a very simple fashion. And I, for the
record, want to say that somebody who came in two weeks before COVID managed to still keep
this ship afloat. And you know, that's pretty extraordinary, in my opinion. And he got the N Line
open, and that was not without some risk. So those are a couple of punctuation points that I
wanted to make.
OK. Next item is item D, the GMOC moving forward. And I think we sort of highlighted this,
that our role now is going to be focusing on our 120 days, which will carry us into the next year.
There will be two of you who will no longer be on the committee starting January 1st. And this
120 days takes us up through, is it-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: March 7.
BARBARA MCMANUS: March 8.
PEGGY CATLIN: March 8, which encompasses both the Board retreat and the Board SLT
retreat. So Directors Walker and Menten will no longer be on the Board. But I think there's some
thought that we try to keep this committee intact, to the extent possible, so that there's some
continuity moving toward March.
And also, since we have new Board members coming in, it might be really confusing to have
another, just to upset the apple cart once again. I know that we've had an alternate who's been a
participant this entire time, Director Buzek. And I guess what I'm doing is asking folks-- and I'll
get together with Director Guissinger later-- but asking folks if they would want to choose to stay
on this committee after the first of the year and if they can make the commitment, with the
caveat that we will have a set time for meetings and get them on the calendar so that it's not quite
so fluid, and then moving forward, to get our work done for Debra Johnson between now and
March.
So I don't need an answer right now. But I would like you all to think about it. And that includes
Director Buzek, as to whether or not feel you can commit the time. If all of the remaining Board

members can commit to this effort, and including Director Buzek, then we would only need to
have the Chair put one more person on this committee.
And I see that Director Cook has a question or comment, and Barbara McManus does as well.
Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you. And I've been doing some reading of the bylaws and our
documentation for the ad hoc committee that Angie has me to work with Doug Tisdale on. And I
seem to remember that no committee, no standing committee, like GMOC, would extend beyond
the one-year term of the Chair. I like the idea of extending our terms, but I'm just questioning
whether or not we technically have to be reappointed by the Chair after the first meeting of the
year.
PEGGY CATLIN: My response is I think technically, we would, depending on who the Chair is,
and that we would want to work with the Chair to express our preference. So, Ms McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I would agree with that. That was one of the things that I wanted to
weigh in on, that we would ask for the commitment now but that still would have to be revisited
in some way, shape, or form after the first of the year. But at that point, but at the January point,
we're 60 days into the 120. So I feel confident that we could meet some sort of compromise so
that at least a portion of this committee can move forward for the continuity of the 120 days that
we're looking at.
I also spoke to Director Guissinger earlier today. And I asked her, since I thought we were going
to be trying to find a time on Thursday that worked for everybody to have this as a standing time
committee. She is available anytime during Thursday except 1:30 to 3:30. So that's the
timeframe. I don't know what other folks' schedules are. But know as Director Catlin has said,
we have three weeks to complete this work, however brief it might be, after today's discussion.
So we would need to move forward and get something on the calendar for next week as well.
So that being said, if for the rest of the meeting, we can be thinking about what time might work
and looking at calendars. And just as an overall overview, as the Board Office does periodically,
we are working on a document that outlines all of the up and coming important dates and times
of things that are happening to include this committee continuing, the ad hoc committee for
Safety and Security, the Accessibility meetings, which there are seven a month at this point. And
we have an ADA training coming up on the 19th of November for the Board of Directors and
SLT.
So all of these are captured on the two-week calendar. But there are, of course, other meetings
dispersed within them. So we're going to put together for the whole Board a succinct calendar of
dates that outlines the obligations between now and the end of the year, because it's quite tight.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. McManus. I know I have some Thursday conflicts. So I'll
have to look that up and get to you.
Director Menten.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Actually, the more I started to think about this-- I won't be on the
Board next year-- but I think what I'm seeing here is a committee that would have one opening.
Because Jeff and I would be gone. Vince would take one of those positions. That would only
leave one remaining position. I guess I'm just kind of speaking up for the Board, new Board
members that would come in next year, that would leave very limited opportunity for any of
them to speak up in our normal process of-- we elect a Chair in January. Don't know who that
might be. And that Chair gets to appoint them.
I don't know that I feel comfortable with the way that's leaning right now.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you for your comment. Others?
Director-- I'm going to ask each of you individually. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, I'd be happy to serve on this committee. And if necessary, next
year I will appoint someone else. Just kidding.
PEGGY CATLIN: I got it. OK. Looking at my calendar, sorry.
Director Cook, your thoughts.
SHELLEY COOK: It's a good point that Natalie brings up. Maybe we can identify a hybrid of
some kind, where half of the members, or 2/3 or something, and then some possibility for-- when
she said that, it made some sense. I kind of put myself in the shoes of the new members. So
anyway.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: I think it's a good idea to keep as many members as possible on this committee
for the sake of consistency, since they all have started this year, going into next. And it's only
two months. And it's not like other members don't have the opportunity to comment and weigh
in. They just don't have the vote. But they still have influence, right.
So I don't know if that helps at all. But those are my thoughts, to keep what we have now and
move that into the first few months of next year, two months and eight days, and then with the
appointment of one new.
And I would also suggest, since we'll know after November 3 who that one person is, who the
Board will be, ask somebody at that point, or ask them all, to start listening in on these meetings,
so whoever gets appointed can step in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Walker. That was my thought, too, that we encourage
our fellow Board members who are not on this committee to listen in as we work on the 120-day
document, so that if they are new to this committee, then they would be prepared.

So I'm going to ask-- I'm not going to go in order that I see people on the screen. I'm going to
first ask Director Lewis, and then Chair Rivera-Malpiede, for their input. Oh, and then I see
Director Whitmore. And even though you're not a committee member, do you have any thoughts
about that?
TROY WHITMORE: Thanks for asking. I do have, I guess to Shelly's point, back to Natalie's
point, I think there's some validity to that need to address the oncoming class of Directors. But
there's some structure issues I think you guys can work through. So I appreciate the point. That's
all I've got. Thanks, Peggy.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Whitmore. OK, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate Director Menten's point, and I agree with it as well. At least in
the time that I've been on the Board, those appointments have come by way of the Chair. And so
because that has been the process, I would love to see that to continue to be the process,
providing the opportunity for new elected Board members to participate on this committee, in the
event that they would be interested in.
And I'm also curious of the Safety committee. You mentioned the Safety committee, and I hadn't
heard about that yet. And so I was curious as to what that was.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook, I believe you've mentioned that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, it was Ms. McManus.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, Ms. McManus. I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Director Lewis, I can call you afterwards. It's that
subcommittee I talked to you about last month that you wanted to see before you would commit
to participate in it. And I think I'm closer to having a charter to share with you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. So did that answer your question, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It did. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, your thoughts on the continuity of-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what? Yeah, I really want to thank everybody for
their comments. And they are completely right on. We don't know who will be elected into the
Board next year. We don't know who will be the Chair or the Executive Committee. And I do
think that we are still kind of like in this really unusual time. But because Ms. Johnson will be
here beginning November 9 and has a 120-day plan of action, she will be well into before the
end of the year.
And so I think that for continuity, to be able to keep as many people on the Committee on as
possible. And then you're absolutely correct, whatever happens in January in terms of selecting

an additional member, or there may be other members who decide that they don't want to
participate, then we can look at that. But I'm kind of looking at the commitment as we move
forward through December 31 and then after January 7. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I think that sums it up. I think what we're hearing is that we do know and
we acknowledge that this committee is only intact until the end of the year and that whoever is
Chair will appoint whomever they feel best moving forward. And I think we would like to
encourage our fellow Board members who are not on this committee, and are not necessarily
term limited, to participate so that if they are appointed next year, that they are prepared to
maintain that sense of continuity.
So for now all we're asking is a commitment from you all to the end of the year and any kind of a
desire of continuing on this committee next year, if you're appointed. So that's really what we're
asking. And Barbara, would you like us just to get back to you with the answer to those two
questions?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sure, that'd be great.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. All right.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: One of the questions you asked also at the beginning was around a day that
we could consistently meet. I have meetings on Thursdays from 2:00 to 4:00 that I can't move
around. I'd have a preference for an early morning meeting, preferably not having a meeting in
the middle of the day is a preference of mine.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I have twice a the month morning meetings on Thursdays on the
E-470 Board. So I'll work with Ms. McManus. Are there any other days of the week that people
are open to? Because it sounds like afternoons, we run up against a conflict with Director
Guissinger, and later in the afternoon, Director Lewis. I have conflict twice a month in the
morning.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Is your meeting all morning, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I need to check. I'll get back with you. It's not every week. So we could do
alternate weeks in the morning. But I've noticed-- we've taken note of the conflicts that we have
on the table right now. Are there others?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would just say not Monday morning, because that's usually
when the Ad Hoc or the Accountability Committee meets. And then the DRCOG-RTC meeting
meets on Monday mornings as well, if I remember correctly. So I think maybe what we should
do is look at the calendar of standing meetings in which Directors are involved to make sure that

there's not a conflict with committee members. And then maybe do a Doodle poll of the ones that
we see might be a way to go.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's a good idea. I think using the two-week calendar as a guide, or
standing committees. But I think what I'm asking for are examples, such as Director Guissinger
and Director Lewis, where outside of these Board duties, you have other lives and where those
conflicts might arise.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: For me, it would be Mondays, I'm not available from 12:30 to
2:00. I have a standing foundation meeting, and a Wednesday morning at 10:30.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. That's what we're looking for.
Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Well, I've got the RTC on Tuesday meetings once a month. Other standing
meetings, my schedule is fairly flexible. Unfortunately, it fills up fast. So whatever we decide, if
we could decide quickly. I mean, I've schedule things into March of next year. So to the extent
we can get that stuff, get it fixed quickly, that'd be great. I'll be flexible and I'll make it work.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. [INTERPOSING VOICES] trying to [INTERPOSING VOICES].
VINCE BUZEK: And as far as the length of the meetings, I know Director Lewis had
commented, and I understand it's important to try to stick to a schedule. But you know,
sometimes when the discussion is necessary, it's necessary. And that's a hard one to really fix.
Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek, thank you for that. I tend to agree. And we've had some very
robust discussions, but I think we had followed the agenda fairly carefully. So we'll try and make
it a little more crisp going forward.
OK. Director Cook, do you have any conflicts?
SHELLEY COOK: No. Sorry, I don't currently, other than the committees I sit on, or the
meetings that would be scheduled, for example, Executive Committee. I would say generally not
later in the afternoons. But that is really only during the veggie van season for Wednesday,
Thursday, and Friday. And that's a limited time of the year, three or four months. So generally
speaking, no, I'm pretty open. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: From now until March you would be available, though. OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, yeah. From now until July. Yeah. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Can you hear me?

PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Yeah, my conflicts are on Monday and Wednesday mornings, let's say,
starting at 9:00, from 9:00 til 10:30.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Sounds good. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Let me try to see if we can nail this down just a little bit. The very first
task at hand is the next two months in dealing with whatever may come up with Debra. And
that's the very first issue that we're dealing with, right, on deciding meeting times.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. What I would speak in favor of would be a 5:30 meeting. Because
then we get rid of middle of the day issue. We get rid of the morning DRCOG and RTC and so
forth issue. And the big advantage to a 5:30 meeting would be that the public, who's working
8:00 to 5:00, would also be able to listen in on these. I think we've seen a tremendous amount of
the public is now participating in our meetings since we hold them in a remote format. And if
they knew we were talking about General Manager plans of action, there would be more interest
in that. And I see that getting around the Board of Directors' schedule conflicts, and especially
for those who work 8:00 to 5:00. That would be where I would lean.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that. My comment to that would be that we have staff
members to think about and their staff time. And I want to be respectful of the number of
meetings that they are obligated to assist us with.
NATALIE MENTEN: [AUDIO OUT]
PEGGY CATLIN: Did I-NATALIE MENTEN: No, I know the public goes last here. Got it.
PEGGY CATLIN: No. I just was making that observation. I'm not disagreeing that we would-wouldn't consider that. I guess factor that into your input to Barbara when you're providing your
schedule conflicts. Do you have any conflicts, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, 8:00 to 5:00 usually is good hours to actually earn a living.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you.
All right. Barbara, we'll just ask folks to get their schedule conflicts to you by the end of the day
today. And then we will-- and that's committee members here-- and then we will formulate a
schedule going forward. And I'll work with you on that.
OK. Next agenda item-- Director Menten, do you have another comment? Your hand is raised.
Thank you.

All right. The next agenda item is the first 120 days. And you all received Debra Johnson's initial
120-day plan and her graphic going forward. I don't know if you all had a chance to look at that.
It's fairly high level. But I know that Chair Rivera-Malpiede has been working with Barbara on
fleshing a little more of this out. So I'd like to turn the-- I know you didn't expect this, Angie, but
I'd like to turn the meeting over to you to talk about your thoughts on this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And I'll have Ms. McManus jump in. But as I looked
at the 120 days, I kind of equated it into the first 25 days would take us through December 3,
which is really crazy to me to think that that's where we're at. And then as I continue to look at
what our job as the Board is, we're really going to be very extraordinarily busy with committee
meetings on October 20, a Board meeting on October 27. And then the next number of days,
from November 9 to March 8, there would be a phase two. So I'm looking in phases.
Phase one would be November 9 through December 3. Phase two, if you look at her timeline,
phase two would be December 3 through February 1. And then during that time, we'll have our
Board retreat on February 6. And then there will be the Board SLT on March 6.
So then the next group would be February 6 through the 21, and then February 2 through March
8. And that's when she is talking about the Board and CEO alignments and then our retreat. So
there's a lot of things that she's going to be looking at consistently.
And then additionally, I know this is really kind of out there, November 3 there won't be a
meeting for us. There will be on November 10. We have an Executive Committee on November
12. And then we're going to have an ADA training either on the 16th or the 19th of November.
And then we have Thanksgiving. And there will be a furlough day in there. So there will be four
days off there for folks. And then December will really consist of contract approvals, as I see it,
at this point.
So when you look at that timeline, it's pretty aggressive for her to come in and do the things that
she's talking about doing. She wants to meet with every Board member. She wants to identify
key stakeholders. I do know that there are a number of people calling to ask to meet with her
immediately at her arrival. And I know that Ms. Tonilas' group is working with that component
in conjunction with Ms. McManus and Tina Aragon, who will be her assistant.
And so as we're looking at this 120 days as the RTD Board of Directors and her goals and
expectations, you can see through this phasing of what she would like to do, there is a lot of
hands-on meeting key stakeholders in the community. And I think that for us, if we could just
maybe-- I don't know if people have had a chance to really sit down and look at the 120-day
plan, but if they could do that, and maybe at the next meeting we can talk a little bit more indepth about it.
But Barbara, what do you think?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I think that sounds good. Two things I'd like to add. So the SLT ADA
training will be on the 19th. That date was decided yesterday. So that will be on the list of dates
that we're preparing to send out to all Directors running now through the end of the year. And

then on October 27, in the Board meeting, we will be having an Executive Session to review the
recommendations from the state audit. So I wanted to throw that out there.
Also, at the bottom of the listing of important dates we'll be sending out, I'm going to specifically
put on there February 1 to February 5. Debra has identified that as phase three, Board
engagement, and she would like to communicate observations and discuss with the Board major
issues. I don't know how she plans on doing that, whether she's going to do it one-on-two,
through that week, or what that structure looks like. I've had a number of conversations with her,
but we're not really there yet with what that will look like.
And so that's February 1 through 5, and then February 6 is the Board only retreat. So I think
there'll be a lot to discuss in that retreat, based on those conversations with Debra.
So I'm really happy with how all of these dates line up with the 120 days. That is pretty much
everything that I have to add to the Chair's overview of the 120 days and how the dates break
out.
PEGGY CATLIN: Anything else, Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I think that's it kind of in a nutshell right now. This is very
preliminarily we're looking at this right now on how it's going to be moving through. So yeah, I
do think that that really does kind of line it out. And you know what, I'd be happy, Madam Chair,
to get this into a document with Ms. McManus to send to the committee so that they could see all
of the pertinent dates that we've identified so far.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I think that would be helpful. I, too, kind of took a look at it with
a long-term schedule and was pleased how this had aligned. I personally am most interested in
phase two, which is the action plan. And I'm anxious to see how that flushes out and appreciate
that she, in the first 25 days, she wants to gather as much input as possible to formulate that
action plan. That was just my observation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. And I would also just like to say that between that February
1 and 5, if I remember correctly, because I was taking copious notes, she's really going to be
looking at observing all the major issues that she will be dealing with.
So we'll make sure that we have a timeline written out for all of you to take a look at that will
incorporate all the phases and all the pertinent dates between now and March 8.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. Any other comments on the first 120 days? Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: What was the date on the state audit?
BARBARA MCMANUS: The 27th at the Board meeting in Executive Session.
NATALIE MENTEN: Of what month?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: October.
BARBARA MCMANUS: October.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would like to add also that in the midst of all of this, no one knows
exactly when, but shortly after Bruce Abel and Paul Ballard leave and Debra Johnson starts, we
will be going through the RIF lay-offs at RTD. So I'm just mentioning that in every meeting that
I'm moving forward with. Because we don't know what that's going to look like in terms of
communications from those employees. And it's going to be a very, very stressful, tedious time
for everyone at that point in time.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, indeed. OK. So we'll await that timeline with the milestone dates
overlaid on that from Ms. McManus. But I would encourage those of you who haven't had a
chance to look at the sketch plan to take a look at it and provide comment to the Chair, since
they're dealing with Ms. Johnson directly.
Moving on. Do we have other matters? I want to be respectful of the 3:00 stop, and maybe we
can even end early. And I guess I am interested in logging on to the candidate forum at 3:00 that
is taking place with Director Tisdale's.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, if I might.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: First of all, I just wanted to alert everyone that I saw a news
report before we got on our conference call today. With the number of escalation of COVID
cases in the state of Colorado, particularly citing the city and county of Denver and every other
county, there are currently, as of yesterday, 317 COVID patients, which alarmingly is a 60%
jump since October 1. And 77% of our ICU beds are currently in use. And I just want to state
that that people understand that we seem to be hitting another spike in the coronavirus. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I personally appreciate that. Because I spent my
morning doing contact tracing since, of the 10 people that were at my daughter's baby shower
this weekend, I got a call from one of them today who just tested positive. So I am selfquarantined for another nine days and am quite concerned about my very pregnant daughter. So
anyway. Yeah.
TROY WHITMORE: That's unfortunate. Just an added note, I just got a meeting notification
from Adams County emergency COVID strategy meeting for all electeds in Adams County
happening tonight. So I will try and join that, in and amongst another one. Darn it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Darn it is the right word. Barbara?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And if I could ask Ms. McManus to very briefly talk about Mr.
Meader's plan at this point?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I had my hand up to do so. So thank you for that, Chair.
Mike Meader gave a briefing this morning in senior leadership. He asked Paul and the committee
what they thought about going back from phase one to phase zero. There's not too much of a
change there, other than it puts us in a more precautionary mode as an agency.
He did say that they have been getting regular visits from the health department at all divisions.
And I think you'll recall that last month we received a citation. We have been adhering, for the
most part, but they did get written up that a couple of the divisions with folks not wearing masks
correctly, meaning covering their noses, in some cases, or folding them over or whatever that
looks like.
He also said that right now the agency has, to date, has had 41 cases. Three are pending. And
what he is finding out from the CDC is that they're finding that most of the cases are rising from
smaller groups than what they have been mandating. I think it's 25 for inside. I think meetings
can be 10 or less. And that through the contact tracing, they're finding out that smaller groups are
where the virus is spreading, within family units. A lot of folks going out socially and being, for
instance, at a table in a restaurant, where their masks are off. He doesn't know what decision is
going to be made based on what they're seeing from smaller groups, but he does think think that
we're going to see some additional restraints come through pretty quickly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. I think you're right.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that. Well, that's proof positive in my small group, there were
10 of us. So we'll wait and see.
Are there any other matters to come before this committee? I don't see any digital hands raised.
So with that, I'd like to adjourn this committee at 2:43 PM. For the record, we are adjourning 17
minutes early. And we will get back to you shortly for the next meetings that we will be
scheduling for the rest of the-- well, especially the rest of the weeks and then through the end of
the year.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: Any opposed?
OK, thank you all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
[COMPUTER TONES]

