## I. Operations and Customer Service Committee

Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

Staff Present:              Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Erin Klaas, Doug Macleod, Brian Matthews, Robin McIntosh, Jr., Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Cal Shankster, Zamy Silva, Greg Smith, John Tarbert, Mark Tieman

Others Present:              Ed Bush, William Carter, Martell Dyles, Jennifer Eckert, Doug Gragg, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Douglas Howey, Gregory Jenifer, Brian Klatt, Stu Livensparger, Dan Pearsall, Maxine Pryor, Gary Van Dorn

#### 1. Approval for Increase in Contract Not-to-Exceed Amount for Smart Card Program

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to increase the current contract not-to-exceed amount by $1,719,512.81 with Xerox, Inc. (Formerly ACS Transportation Solutions, Inc.). The total new contract not-to-exceed amount, for contract # 19FH005, is $17,381,470.23.

Motion:              Director Sisk made the motion to move this to the full Board at the June 25th, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:              Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, stated that the action is to increase the total amount for the contract with ACS/Xerox.  The contract number is 19FH005 which they will include in the final document to be presented for Board approval next week.  This is required to enable RTD to increase the scope of the Smart Card project.  Some of the elements are to support and enhance the existing system and some to grow the system.  Staff shared that they have received comments from customers requesting additional platform validators to increase customer convenience at the Light Rail platforms.

This action also includes additional platform validators for the FasTracks expansion on the East Corridor, Gold Line, etc.  It includes programing enhancements to improve the interface between the CAD/AVL system and the Smart Card project to enable single driver logon.  This will include programming for enhancement to the web portal, which is where current customers (Colleges and businesses) that self-administer the EcoPass programs come to issue cards, turn cards on/off, etc.  With the next phase, the general public will use the portal to renew monthly passes, etc.   Staff will also acquire new cards for next year’s issuance and some smaller actions such as purchasing some software so that we have redundancy.

Director Menten asked if the vendor fees are set amounts or depend on the grocery chain.  Bruce Abel stated that we do not pay commission to any of our sales outlets.  The existing sales outlets have agreed to work with RTD with regard to the credit card fees which will be subject to negotiations.  Director Menten asked if that would come to the Board in the future if it takes place.  Bruce stated that it is not associated with this request.  That would be an operating expense of the Smart Card program as opposed to an element of the contract with Xerox.

Director Folska asked if we list all the venues where people can buy the cards.  Bruce stated that we do not currently because the only cards available are the “business-to-business” cards (EcoPass and CollegePass).  As we move to the public phase, we will communicate to the public where they can purchase the public fare media and the locations will be posted on the website.

Director Deadwyler stated that the recommendation includes the purchase of an additional Smart Media Encoder for the redundancy needed.  She asked why we need to purchase extra equipment when technology changes so quickly.  She wonders why we need to purchase that when we might not need it and the technology might change.  Trent Ratcliff, Senior Manager of IT stated that the Smart Media Coder is a proprietary piece of technology from Xerox to encode and encrypt the cards for our riders.  We have been able to keep up with demand for the EcoPass, Neighborhood and CollegePass programs currently but staff expects that once the program is rolled out to the general public the demand will be high enough and we want to be able to get the cards in people’s hands quickly.  Also, if either of the two encoders we currently own were down we would not able to keep up with the demand.  Trent stated that the plan is that they would not purchase the validators in the near future, but the contract not to exceed amount would allow that when other corridors open in future years we already have the ability to move forward with validator purchases.  What will most likely happen is that depending on the year they would get the one with the most current technology at the time.   Director Deadwyler stated that we are two to three years out on any finish build-out with the East Line and I-225 and she is wondering why we would need to purchase it so soon.  Bruce stated that they are not asking for the purchase at this time, they  are asking to amend the contract so that when the contractors come and say they are ready to do the installation hat staff has the authority to move forward an execute those purchases.  General Manager Washington stated that it would be at today’s prices.  Bruce stated that the contract includes a formula that talks about how prices increase overtime with the Producer Price Index (PPI).

Director Lubow asked if staff has been able to get additional vendors other than King Soopers and Safeway.  She knows they were thinking of maybe asking Target, Wal-Mart and some other mass retailers.  Bruce stated that they have reached out to Wal-Mart and Target.  Those retailers declined and they indicated that as national and international vendors they do not wish to undertake programs that they can do only in some communities.  Bruce stated that we respect their decision.  Staff will continue to reach out to Walgreens because they have precedence of working with transit agencies in other communities and they will continue to reach out to 7-11.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED to the Recommended Action

#### 2. Board Report August 2013 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors approve the proposed August 2013 Service Change as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of $1,108,900 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose services are impacted by these changes.

Motion:              Director Folska made the motion to move this to the full Board at the June 25th, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Daly seconded the motion.

Discussion:              Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager stated that this was discussed with the Board previously.  As result of the timing of the committee meeting and the public meetings they were not able to distribute the summaries of the public meetings with the Board Packet that went out last week, but each Director received today a summary of the comments received at the public meetings.  Jessie Carter will provide a summary and overview of the changes that have occurred since they last reviewed this a month ago.   During the public comment they received a number of comments about the 16-16L issue along Colfax.  They have not had adequate opportunity to fully analyze some of the requests for reinstating the 16L.  He wanted to share that just as they did with the Southeast Corridor, changes of this magnitude take time to adjust to as they continue to evaluate the transition of people’s travel patterns.  They will continue to look at the 16L reintroduction question.  If they are able to have something done by next week’s meeting, they will discuss it at that time.  He cannot promise that will be the case and they might have to come back to the Board for the January service change with comments and a recommendation.

Jessie Carter, Service Planning and Scheduling Manager stated that they had higher than anticipated participation at the public meetings.  They had more people wanting to talk about the proposed changes than in previous meetings.  The City of Boulder’s meeting was attended by Director Sisk and that was the smallest meeting with only 3 participants.  The largest meeting was attended by Director Tobiassen and Director Folska with 89 participants at Heather Gardens; the big call to action there was Route 130.  At Blake Street during the noon meeting they had 25 participants wanting to talk about the Route 16L and 100X and at the later meeting they had 5 participants wanting to speak about the 16L.  Another large meeting was at Clements Center with 69 people and at the Golden meeting they had 44 participants.  While these are not huge numbers, for our public hearing process these are rather large numbers.

Jessie explained that they are adding to Route 10 service which is the East 12th Avenue cross town service.  They learned that there are quite a few overloads during the AM peak so additional trips will be added.  They are having some on-time performance issue on the combination of the route 88 and 89; they are proposing a schedule analysis for that route with no financial impact.  They are proposing changes for the W line that will allow for more reliable operation during the early morning hours and there is no anticipated cost attached to this.

Director Hoy asked about the way the estimated cost is recorded for the changes.  There are various terms and he is not sure he understands what they mean.  Some say $10,300 annualized, some say $6,900, some say week day cost annualized.  Jessie stated that all the cost is annualized.  They sometimes characterize something as a week day changes vs a weekend day because when you look at weekday hours you are talking about 255 days annually, when you are looking at Saturday you are looking at 52 days and Sundays you are looking at 58.  Director Hoy clarified that every dollar is an annual cost and anything else around that is peripheral to give the Board an idea if it is a weekday route or a weekend.  Jessie confirmed that is correct.

Director Sisk stated he is concerned about Route 209 and thanked Director Lubow who also attended the Boulder meeting.  It seems to him that we are being “penny wise and pound foolish” in terms of not having that service go on to Adams Circle.  It serves a senior assisted living facility and it does not cost us any extra to do that.  He urged RTD to consider keeping the route as it is and work with the residence to use our services rather than VIA.  That is a direct route to the Kaiser medical facility.  He thinks in terms of the cost-benefit it is certainly something we can look at as senior citizens are people that are less fortunate.  He thinks it is a real slap in their face and he is very disappointed that this has not been readdressed by RTD.  He will vote against this because he feels this is something that does not put us in good standing for something that does not cost us any more money to go on that circle.  Jessie stated that this is not a change they are making for the sake of change.   What is happening is that the left hand turn coming onto 30th Avenue is a tough turn with traffic in both directions. It was brought to staff as an operational issue; when they looked at the level of ridership coming from the senior center they had 5 boarding per day.  That would not meet the standard for the number of boardings at the risk of turning back on to 30th Avenue.  Jessie stated that he understands Director Sisk’s concern and can talk to him more about it and the impact to operations.

Director Folska stated that she attended the Heather Gardens meeting as well.  She thanked Jeff Dunning and everybody that was there as they did an outstanding job.  As staff mentioned there were 89 people there.  She appreciates the adjustments that they made and it is nice that they call it 130H.

Director Daly attended the Golden and Lakewood public meetings and there were several people protesting the cuts on Route 17.  He knows that we instituted two call-n-Ride buses in that district.  He wonders why the call-n-Ride has not been able to pick up the slack.  Bruce stated that he thinks that at this time it is an education issue.  The service changes have only been out 6 weeks going on 7 so call-n-Ride is a new service delivery model in the area.  The performance on the Golden call-n-Ride, especially on the Flex Route which is the portion of the service area in the times when it operates in sort of a fix route mode, is very positive.  They will continue to evaluate because Route 17 is one of the most talked about routes.  He also thinks that the recommendations to reinstitute the 87X, 100X and changes already made to the 116X have really addressed the majority of the commentary.  Jessie also stated that many of the people in the public hearing were there representing the Montessori school which is outside the call-n-Ride area.  Their use of the Route 17 was once or twice year.  If they had used the route regularly we would not have cancelled the route.  Director Daly asked how far from the call-n-Ride boundaries they are.   Jessie stated that they are halfway between Applewood Village and 10th and Washington; it is quite a ways away from the call-n-Ride.

Director Daly asked Jessie for clarification on the W line adjustments.  He wanted to confirm that it will only be adjustments, not service cuts.   Jessie stated that they are rearranging some trips a minute here and there; there will be no service cuts.

Director Solano asked if the changes to Routes 88 and 89 were due to school ending.   Jessie stated that they needed 5 minutes of running time added because the 88 and 89 are interlined, which means one bus in Route 88 becomes the 89 at Stapleton.

Chair Anderson said she was talking to some folks from Golden and they think we will need another bus because their bus was crowded.  She asked if that was under consideration.  Jessie stated that if they are talking about route 16 that is somewhat in consideration; however, the change they are supporting for the Route 16 addresses the area east of Wadsworth with the additional service.  Chair Anderson also asked for clarification that they were not cutting services on the West line.  Jessie stated that they are not cutting much of anything this time around.  Chair Anderson asked if her understanding is correct that they were going to add some trains at specific times.  Jessie stated that they are switching some times that the trains actually run and when the trains pull out of the barn.  Chair Anderson stated that they did not have any changes in Arvada.

Director Bagley asked to see on a monthly basis what the ridership is on the W line.  He knows it is not stabilized yet but he thinks is worthwhile for the Board to understand what the ridership is on a monthly basis.  Bruce stated that from his point the W is very well ridden but realistic ridership numbers will probably start in September-October.  Director Bagley stated that even with unrealistic data he would like to see June, July and August and he knows it will change later.

Director Menten stated that with regard to Director Daly’s comments on Route 17 to the charter school, she has also heard from some of the parents.  During the meeting they stated that Jeffco R-1 School District would cover them if RTD would not cover them.  Director Menten called the Jeffco R-1 and the charter school does not fall under option school category.  She asked them to look at what it would take for R-1 to take care of the students; they will take a couple of days to draft a cost to transport the students.  Jeffco currently charges students to use the buses.

Director Tobiassen thanked Director Folska for attending the meeting at Heather Gardens.  It was a very contentious meeting, which is good because it got the residents talking about bus service and what is important to them.  It was a great opportunity for RTD to educate the public.  He also thanked Jeff Dunning and the planning staff for coming up with a creative solution; it is a very workable compromise and it makes a lot of people happier even if it doesn’t make everybody happy.  The people really appreciated the info sheet handed out at the meeting with all the services we provide.  He thinks this is a marketing tool so the people know what services are available for them and how to use them.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED to the Recommended Action

##### a. Board Report August 2013 Service Change Committee Final Atch A

### C. Updates

- Special Services 1st Qtr 2013 Report

- Customer Complaints Analysis 1st Quarter 2013

- Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 1st Quarter 2013

- Access-a-Ride 1st Quarter 2013 Report

Bruce Abel stated that as part of the agenda for both the Operations and Customer Service and Financial Administration and Audit Committees there are quarterly performance reports.  In the future they hope to provide these to the Board as part of the same committee whether that is FA&A or Operations.

Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services, stated that for the first quarter fixed route contractor performance they saw improvements in all providers’ on-time performance numbers. All of the contractors met goals and she commended Viola for the efforts that they put forth to bring them up to goals.

Carolyn stated that there are still challenges on the customer complaints measure.  They continue to work with the contractors to try to review what is driving the increases and work with the operations to try to alleviate some of the difficulties they are experiencing. For paratransit special services there was nothing significant to report.

Chair Anderson stated that she would like to know the actual count of people that are not picked up when they call for access-a-Ride.  Bruce stated that they can get the figure of the not answered calls because they do get reports on a daily and weekly basis of numbers of calls that come in, average wait time and any calls that are abandoned.   They can provide the abandonment number and rate.  Chair Anderson asked what the remedy is for the persons that have been abandoned.   Carolyn asked if she is asking about customers that call in to access-a-Ride and hang up before the call gets answered.  Chair Anderson stated she is talking about the customers that call and think they have scheduled a ride but no ride comes.  Bruce stated that they will have to do some research.

Director Bagley asked about South Jeffco call-n-Ride.  The boardings per week day during 2012 were 65 and jumped to about 130 per day.  He wants to know what the explanation is.  Brian Mathews stated that number takes in the whole entire year and we are running at the 130-140 boardings per day.  Director Bagley asked if the number on the 2012 column is an average.  Brian said it could be but it looks a little low.  Director Bagley asked how they feel the call-n-Ride is working after being open for almost a year now.  Brian stated that they met a couple of weeks ago and do have some changes that they are going to make.  They think the flex routes are not doing the job they should be doing.  They are doing some behind the scenes work to see if they can make them more efficient.  Director Bagley asked if that would be a potential realignment.  Brian said that it is correct.  Director Bagley asked if saying that it is stabilized and somewhat better than we thought it would be is a correct statement.  Brian said that would be correct but it is still a little bit of a challenge.  They have 4 vehicles out there and it is a very large area.  The number of complaints has decreased but he would like to see the number or trips higher; it is not meeting the minimum standard of three per hour.  Director Bagley asked if the issue of complaints from customers is that we are not receiving them or if the people might have just fallen away.  Brian said that is correct; people find other alternatives.

Director Bagley noted that with regard to the Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride the boardings per hour during the weekday have dropped somewhat during the period he would not have expected.  Brian stated that Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride is a tough one.  They had that call-n-Ride on the to be discontinued list several times but Douglas County has contributed money to help support it.  The analysis showed they carry a lot of disabled people and at the last public hearing they had over 40 people show up and said if we cancel they will get on the access-a-Ride.  The cost analysis showed that it would be more cost efficient to just leave the call-n-Ride.  Director Bagley asked if they have one bus or two.  Brian stated they have one.

Bruce stated that going back to the South Jeffco call-n-Ride the number for 2012 is an average.  The math could be that it started off very low so moving from 30 to 90 would just be an average of 45.

Director Hoy asked about the Federal Heights call-n-Ride.  He asked what the time frame is for that funding.  Brian stated that we are on the second year right now and it is performing better than we thought; we originally thought that it would be at 1.5 boardings per hour and it is at 2.5.  They are now serving a Wal-Mart out there that has increased boardings.  Director Hoy stated that he will go and talk to those people because he believes it can meet our standards.  He also noted that there are three contiguous call-n-Rides and it requires a passenger going from south to north or the other way around to coordinate three different transportation options to make that trip.  He asked if we can consider consolidating those call-n-Rides that so that one vehicle can take the passenger the whole trip.  Brian stated that it makes sense and they are meeting with the supervisor of the call-n-Ride to look at the possibility of combining South and North Thornton into a one call-n-Ride with two vehicles.  That is where the transfer activities are happening.  They cannot include Federal Heights at this point because it is grant funded and it is not meeting minimum standards so it would not be a wise decision.  Director Hoy stated that we would probably not have a way to monitor its performance if it got combined with the other ones.  Director Hoy also asked if there is a formula for a group to put in money to keep an underperforming call-n-Ride or if it is negotiated.  Brian it is usually negotiated.  Bruce stated the generally the formula is that if they kick in 100% of the cost we will consider continuing it.

Director Hoy stated that we had a snafu with the Broomfield call-n-Ride and the 128 connection.  Brian stated he has not heard anything about that.

Director Folska asked who the contractor is that does the paratransit or access-a-Ride call center.  Carolyn stated that it is First Transit.  Director Folska stated that she uses them sometimes and finds it unusual that they don’t know where our light rail stations are.  If she calls and tells them that she wants to go to Southmore light rail station they ask for an exact address.   She would like to see them improve their ability to find a location and be more flexible.  Larry Butter, Manager of Paratransit Services stated that there are a lot of landmarks that can be programed into the route map system; unfortunately right now the reservationist must enter a physical address into the system for it to schedule the trip.  The problem they’ve had in the past is that by making it a manual element it leads to errors so they ask passengers to provide the addresses.  They are attempting to come up with addresses for park-n-rides and rail stations but they end up being literally pieces of paper on a person’s desk that they refer to when a person calls to schedule a trip.  If it gets out of control they could end up with a 500 pages book that would lengthen the amount of processing time.  Director Folska stated that they should at least have our addresses.  Larry stated that they are working on that right now and should be available within the next 10 days.

Director Lasater mentioned to the other Directors that when they are talking to their municipalities, one of the things that Parker did was take it upon themselves to advertise in their local community newspaper and newsletter and during the summer months they took on the fare cost for their riders which were the slower time of the year.  It didn’t cost much but it substantially increased ridership.  You might want to talk to other mayors and council members.

Director Tobiassen asked about the access-a-Ride monitoring review 2013 1st Quarter; the numbers are all over the place.  Carolyn stated that it is the internal audit report; staff goes out and audits the private contractors periodically. Some of them don’t have any data yet which means that the staff has not gone out in that area.  Director Tobiassen asked what the 25% okay means.  Carolyn explained that staff did see some errors in the files.  A letter was issued to the contractor to fix the errors.  Staff will go back to check at a later date.  Ideally we would see 100%.  Director Tobiassen asked how long VIA has been on board with RTD.  Bruce stated that VIA is the new name for Special Transit and have been with us since the advent of the program.

#### 1. Special Services 1st Qtr 2013 Report

##### a. Special Services Monthly Report 1st Qtr 2013

#### 2. Customer Complaint Analysis 1st Quarter 2013

#### 3. Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 1st Quarter 2013

##### a. 2013 Qtr 1 review

#### 4. Access-a-Ride 1st Quarter 2013 Report

##### a. AAR 2013 QTR 1 Statistics

##### b. RouteMatch Metrics QTR 1 2013

##### c. Monitoring Review 2013 1st Qrt

##### d. Complaint Report 2013 1st Qtr

#### 5. Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Project Status Update

#### 6. Smart Card Project Status Update

#### 7. 1st Quarter 2013 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary

Chief John Tarbert stated that the report can be found in the June 18th, 2013 Operations and Customer Service Agenda Packet.

Director Lubow stated that it looked to her like when they were plain clothes fare enforcers the evasions statistics were consistently higher than if it was just a regular sweep. Chief Tarbert stated that the police officers are the only ones working in plain clothes; if a uniform gets on a car the fare evaders get off or do not get on.  They don’t know who the plain clothes details are until the doors close and the badges come out.  Director Lubow stated that it seems to be more accurate.

Director Tobiassen commented that he has been riding the 15. He was on the H line this past Saturday and the Aurora cops are in the buses and travel in uniform.  The response from the community has been very positive.  They might not be doing much in the fare checking business, but giving people a sense of wellbeing and security in the buses and rail.

John Tarbert commented that a Lakewood officer in plain clothes was standing on a platform and a suspect walked up and tagged the platform; he was arrested and over the radio the police officer stated “I’m transporting this gentleman to Jeffco County Jail on light rail”.

Director Menten asked for an update from the Lamar incident.  Chief Tarbert stated that it did not occur on the RTD property; it was on the city street, and the boyfriend ran to the light rail platform to the emergency phone.  Director Menten asked how far away was from the platform.  Chief Tarbert stated that it was several hundred feet.

##### a. ON-BOARD FARE SWEEPS

##### b. G4S Station Enforcement

##### c. G4S On-Board Sweeps

##### d. G4S Station Checks

### D. Other Matters

Director Daly requested an update about the information he requested with regard to extending the West Line to downtown.  He stated that he is not recommending it; these are questions he has heard from different sources.  Bruce Abel stated that he and Austin Jenkins talked about that and there are actually several questions that were brought up.  One is the access of the West Corridor to downtown (16th and Stout/California) and the other one was the comment of express, skip stop service.  He stated that we do not have the physical infrastructure for a West corridor train to come into downtown.  It would require additional tracks to be constructed to actually access downtown when that is defined as coming in to Stout/California and circulating to downtown.  Director Daly asked if that means there is not enough room.  Bruce stated that there is no track that provides the pathway; there would have to be separate connections built between what’s currently the West corridor track and the track that serves downtown.  Nor from a capacity prospective do we have the ability to add additional trains downtown.  The old analogy “you can’t put six quarts into a gallon jug” applies here.  We have certain capacity through the central corridor with the signal system set at every two and half minutes in 60 minutes; that means that you can put 24 trains going through.  You can’t put the extra vehicles through there even if we had the track.   With regard to skipping stops to run express on the West corridor, our signal system is not currently set up to allow trains to skip stations; therefore when we stop at a station it has to go through the signal cycle with the gates closing and opening on the at grade crossing.  So in the current signal system we do not have the capacity to run express services and it would not be an insignificant expenditure to rework the signal system.  Director Daly thanked Bruce and stated that he hopes the involved parties will be able to hear that.

GM Washington mentioned that he has directed the staff to create a fare taskforce to look at our fare structure, fare media and all aspects of our fare including the zones.  They will also look at best practices around the country.  They see this to be a taskforce made up of every component of the agency.  They envision going out with public hearings when the review is complete and will bring it to the Board.  They think the taskforce will last at least six months.  They will put together the charter and keep the Board informed.

Director Menten asked if the taskforce would be just staff.  GM Washington stated that they will start with staff from each internal department, then go out for public input.  They would bring the final report to the Board.  Director Menten stated that she would be interested in knowing what notification process we will use to inform the public that we are having hearings.  GM Washington stated that they will do Twitter, Facebook and regular old people’s communications.

Director Walker stated that it is timely as he has received some questions about the fare structure.  Especially as we open a new line, there will be a lot more questions about this.  Bruce stated that this is particular timely as we look forward to introduce the new lines, especially going out the airport with its own special fare structure.

### F. Adjourn

Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 6:38.m. to the Civil Rights Committee meeting.