## I. Planning and Development Committee

Chaired by Kent Bagley

### A. Call to Order

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 6:46 p.m.

Staff Present:              Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Patrick McLaughlin, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Errol Stevens, Tim Stokes, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:               Michelle Brier, Mike Dino, Jane Donovan, Jared Fleisher, Claudia Folska, Kim Griffiths, Sherman Hamilton, Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Anne Miano, Kevin O’Neil, Gene Putman, Ann Rayewski, Jacob Rizer, Jeanne Shreve, Julie Skeen, Karen Stuart, Hunter Sydnor, George Thomas, Monte Whaley, Elena Wilkens

#### 1. 2012-1 : Disposition Plan for Excess Land in Ft. Lupton, Weld County

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors approve the proposed Disposition Plan for excess land for the 80,173 square feet (1.84 acres) net of county road right of way located at 13215 Weld County Road 8, Fort Lupton, Colorado and further authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute a contract for the sale of the property.

Motion:               Director Tobiassen made the motion to move this item to the full Board at the December 18th, 2012 Board meeting.

Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:              John Shonsey stated that back in 2007 RTD had an agreement with Pacific Railroad Company and this property was purchased as part of the agreement.  In May 2008 the Board passed a resolution that the property acquired by Union Pacific was no longer needed.  The property was first offered to the original owners at the price the owner paid but the owners did not wish to buy back the property.

An unsolicited offer has been received from the Villano Brothers Properties, Inc.  An appraisal report was completed by Sue Ann Foster, MAI, Foster Valuation Company LLC.  They have concluded that property is valued at $135,000 or 80,173 square feet at $2.25 per square foot ($180,389) less demolition costs of $45,000.  The property will be sold “as is-where is”.  If approved by the Board, the proceeds will be assigned to the FasTracks Internal Savings Account.

Director Daly asked why the property is listed at 1.84 acres and the map shows 1.9.  John explained that the map included the roadway area.

Director O’Boyle asked why if the appraisal states that the property is being sold “as is-where is” the demolition is being charged to RTD. John stated that the appraisal takes into consideration that the homes/buildings are not habitable; they have been vandalized since RTD acquired them.

Director Tobiassen asked if this had gone through the RFP process.  John stated that since it has been on the market for several years it did not go through the RFP process and the unsolicited proposal offers fair market price.  As long as it has been in the market the RFP process is not required.  John also stated that RTD has received other offers over the years but they were substantially lower than the appraisal.

Director Hoy asked if the property was listed for sale.  John stated that it has been in the market but it has not been listed. Director Hoy asked how it was marketed.  Staff stated that it was through verbal communication and the real estate agents in that area knew it was available.  Director Hoy also asked if the offer came before or after the appraisal was done.  Staff stated that it came before the appraisal.  The offer is a little bit less than the market value determined.  Director Hoy stated that he wants to have a discussion about how we go about marketing these properties.  In this instance we are probably getting a fair value but we might not be getting the best value.  Director Hoy would like to be part of the discussions.

Director McMullen stated that this closes another chapter in FasTracks.  He is happy to see it go and get the fair value.

Director James asked if the appraised value is the $135 thousand.  John explained the value of the appraisal is $180 thousand, but includes the demolition cost.  Director James asked what constitutes marketing property.  John stated that even though it was not listed with a broker it was made well known to the real estate agents in the area.  Director James also questioned the use of the term unsolicited proposal.  He does not think that is accurate because the property was on the market and therefore we are accepting offers.

Committee Chair Bagley declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

##### a. Scanned_Document_20121128134558

##### b. Scanned_Document_20121128134611

#### 1. Quarterly Transit Oriented Development Update

Bill Sirois stated that the report focuses on what has been accomplished in 2012.  TOD accomplishments include the pilot programs for the Alameda station, the Olde Town Arvada-Gold, Welton Corridor and the Federal Center West.  Other accomplishments include the Boulder Junction which with public-private partnership allows for economic development and Denver Union Station.  This include 71 units of income restricted affordable housing, 140 room hotel and redevelopment of the historic depot which is anticipated to close by mid December 2012, with groundbreaking in January 2013 and reopening by the Spring of 2014.

The Arvada Ridge – Gold, the developer, and RTD will partner to construct garage with income restricted affordable housing.  Staff is currently reviewing a proposal for operational and feasibility.  The next steps will be presented in Q1 2013.

Denver Union Station Historic Building – the staff successfully negotiated the master lease with Union Station Alliance (USA).  Construction will begin in December and it will be closed to public until 2014.

Bill Sirois stated that he expects to engage more with Aurora.  He also shared that next week he will have a Wykoop Plaza meeting to focus on the management and programming of the open space in front of the station.  The meeting will be in the T&D conference room on Wednesday.

Director James asked if the University Station is scheduled for next year.

Director Daly stated that new work keeps popping up and he asked for an explanation. Bill Sirois explained one of the goals of the pilot program is looking at how we are involved and we want to be in a position that is catalytic and that is consistent with area plans.  In the case of the Alameda station we are looking beyond the RTD property.

Director Tayer stated he wanted to recognize the staff for all the planning and outreach they did to get the Boulder Junction going.

Director Malpiede also applauded the staff for their innovation and for looking into all TOD projects.  She asked with the federal incentives on hold if there is an opportunity to have an evaluation.  They are trying to address the questions among the staff and hope that it can translate into a process where everybody understands the criteria that they are looking for and hope some of those pilots graduate.

Director McMullen asked if there are any updated about the DU Station.  Bill Sirois stated that they did get the funding for the low income housing.  Director McMullen asked if there was any progress on the vacant space near the station.  Bill Sirois stated that the two first proposals were deemed non responsive.  Staff did another RFP and they did not get any proposals.  Staff proposes to take it off the market and see how RTD could use the space and hopefully get better proposals once the market recovers.  Director McMullen asked if the issue was that there is no access to water.  Bill affirmed that the water access is one of the issues and there is no space for parking.

Director McMullen asked for an update on the Colorado Station and the easement with Lincoln properties that had been approved in prior years.  Bill Sirois stated that it was never started.  Director McMullen asked about the Southmoor station.  Sirois stated that it has been put on the back burner.  On the Belleview station Director McMullen asked if anything is happening there.  Bill Sirois stated that when they made the deal with the developer, RTD built a temporary facility in their property and the developer would build a permanent one outside the facility when it was developed.  The developer is ready to decommission the temporary bus facility.

Director McMullen requested update on the Orchard station and if the City of Greenwood Village is going to put their city hall in that area as they have been planning.  Bill Sirois stated that City wants to meet with staff as their developer has a plan for 50 units of office space.  With regard to the Dayton Station, nothing is being pursued.

Director McMullen stated that on 9 mile, the property owners don’t seem to get it together.  Bill Sirois said it was in limbo for a while.  Aurora just went back and amended it, but has not heard if the developers are moving forward.

Director James thanked staff for all their work on University Station.  The feedback that he has received is that RTD is really a catalyst.

Director Deadwyler asked about development in the Welton Corridor; Bill Sirois explained that staff had talked to the stakeholders about doing a project in that area.  Staff wants to have something that will generate other interest.  With this process they have generated a lot of information that they have shared with the community along the corridor for development.  They are trying to see what else can be done.  Director Deadwyler asked if RTD is taking the lead.  Bill Sirois stated that they have said to the City that RTD is not going to be the first one if there’s nobody else aligning with them and ready to develop.  GM Washington stated that this is two different things.  Bill is talking about the revitalization of the area and the other is the mobility aspect.

Director Bagley asked if the TOD design criteria are completed and if it is being used in other projects.  Kate Iverson stated that they have been working very close with the City of Arvada in getting a master plan and the criteria in place.  The TOD design criteria clearly articulate how to develop our station in that environment.  Director Bagley thanked them and asked if moving forward or looking ahead they will revise the TOD in 2013.  Staff stated that they expect that by the 2nd half of the year they will have the 2013 revisions.  Director Bagley recommended reaching out to clients to get an understanding and put together a lessons learned kind of document.

With regard to the Strategic Parking Plan, Director Bagley stated that he is happy to see they are reviewing this and asked if they have an idea of the timing.  Staff expressed that they would expect that in the 2nd half of 2013.

##### a. TOD 2012 Board update 12-4-12_final

#### 2. Lease of Parking to Mile High Development, LLC at University Station

Bill Sirois stated that in Feb 2011 the Board authorized staff to move forward with developing a parking lease structure for the property north of the DU parking garage.  This has been acquired from us to develop a housing project.  The terms of that would be $30 a month per space and adjusted every 5 years.  RTD has coordinated with the development team on this project and after further review of the payment terms they have a different proposal.  Mile High will agree to buy the 50 units and RTD has agreed to provide a discount to $25 per space.  Mile High will also purchase Eco Passes for all of its residents.  Central Parking will manage the spaces just like other parking in the system.  Staff has concluded that this approach will build ridership.  Also the contract ensures that the parking is used for transit.  This means RTD will get $11 less for each space but Mile High will pay annually through the EcoPasses.  They will pay a little bit more since the total would be $36.  Staff thinks this is a better approach as it encourages ridership and overall works better.  The neighborhood EcoPass program is a good program to use in this type of circumstance.

Director Tayer stated that it does have a very attractive look and feel.  The purpose was to provide disadvantage people to have access to the service.  Director Tayer applauded the creativity and the fact that the math also makes sense.

Director Tobiassen stated that the EcoPass is an interesting concept and asked if it would be required for each tenant to have the EcoPass.  Staff affirmed that they would be required.  Director Tobiassen asked how many parking spaces are being provided.  Staff stated that there are about 20 spaces on site with an overall potential for 70 spaces.   Director Tobiassen asked if there are elevators in this parking garage.   Staff stated that they have developed a solution with providing 6 spaces right outside the front door for the Access-a-Ride.  Director Tobiassen asked if they have any idea of the number of riders that will be generated.  Staff stated that at this point they don’t know.  Director Tobiassen requested the staff to provide a projection.

With regard to the DU station, Director Tobiassen asked if one of the two bidders was proposing storage and we did not accept the proposal, why we are going to use it for storage. Staff stated that this is in lieu of paying for storage as we do currently.

Director James thinks that the transit piece is okay and asked if the developer has agreed.  Staff stated that they have.  Director James stated it is important to manage those deals proactively; this is another example of progressively looking to our real estate assets.

Director Deadwyler asked why we are not considering some accommodations that would allow the senior citizens to park closer to their units.  She stated that we are not taking their issues and being concerned about them.  When we are negotiated these deals we need to do a better job about that and be more considerate about our handicapped. Bill Sirois stated that the way the deal has been structured is that the property is very limited.  RTD is working with the developers to provide the parking space in a facility that we already owned.

Director McMullen asked how many spaces there are.  Staff responded that there are 540 and in a good month they have 80% use.  Director McMullen commented that at the beginning there was staff in the booth.  Bill Sirois stated that they discontinued that because it is not needed.  There is not overnight parking allowed and the residents would have a sticker for overnight parking.

Director Walker mentioned that in 2005 the project was very different, but it is good to see to see something finally coming to this site.

Director Bagley commented that on the issue of the parking it is important to accommodate that into our parking management and setting a model to deal with senior citizens.  He thanked the staff for working with Mile High development.

### F. Adjourn

Committee Chair Bagley adjourned the meeting at 7:51 p.m. to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee.