02-02-2021
PCPFT Committee Meetings
SHELLEY COOK: OK, everybody. [CAT MEOWS] Pardon my cat.
I'll call to order the Planning, Capital Programs, and FasTracks Committee. And would note the time we
are convening is at 8:06 PM. Would note, for the record, that attendance has been taken and we had all
members present.
And then in case these are posted separately, these podcasts, I'll read into the record that under the
current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the
interest of public health, safety, and welfare, that during this time, meetings will be primarily audio
recorded, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, and they, along with the unofficial minutes of
the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com and
scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
OK. We have, first of all, two action items tonight. They're pretty exciting ones. I would, first of all, read,
for the record, the recommended action on the first one, the approval of the 15L route improvements
change order. And the action is that the Planning, Capital Programs, and FasTracks committee
recommend to the Board of Directors that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or her
designee to grant Jalisco International Inc. a time extension for the 15L route improvements contract until
October 15, 2021 and increase the contract amount by $793,000, for a total amount not to exceed
$9,969,050.36.
Do I have a motion to approve?
BOB BROOM: So moved, Bob Broom.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I have a motion and a second. Thank you.
Henry Stopplecamp, are you on the line?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes, I am. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Can everybody hear me OK?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, you're coming through loud and clear. Thank you.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: OK. So Henry Stopplecamp, AGM Capital Programs. And the action before
you, as you noted, is a recommendation for a time extension and contract value increase to Jalisco, the
Jalisco contract. So it's on page 36 of your Board packet and shared on the screen.
On the call with me is Jyotsna Vishwakarma and Ashland Vaughn. And they can help me dive into more
detail if we need to, Chief Engineer and Head of Construction.
So the Board packet basically covers the improvements on the Colfax corridor. So I won't go into a whole
lot of detail. The civil work is near completion. Shelters are on hand. But we needed to do some
modifications to the monument cabinets. These monument houses are the brains of the shelters. Just
think of it as a high end computer equipment storage site. It needs to be protected. You've got security

feeds, cameras, recording equipments, the PIDs, fiber termination, along with communication feeds all
come into the cabinet within the monuments.
When the RTD staff saw the prototype this time last year, we didn't think it'd meet RTD's long-term needs.
So we've redesigned and we've checked out a new prototype, and it's looking pretty good. The
redesigned cabinets will be better to withstand the weather conditions we have here in Colorado, easier
to maintain. They're going to be beefier. They'll hold up to the elements and vandalism. And the goal is to
provide a safer cabinet for the electronics.
We have a grant to build-- combination of state and federal, but the maintenance, long-term maintenance
for the hardware belongs to RTD. So we want to make sure that the cabins will hold up.
Our construction team was on site last month. The new cabinets will be manufactured-- and we didn't
order cabinets, got them and rejected a bunch of prototypes, so we're building new cabinets-- we're
building the cabins on a new design, and they'll be manufactured here in Colorado. And based on what
we saw last month, we believe the design and material will accomplish the needs for RTD.
So the grant is a, like I said, local and federal grant. RTD is providing a 24% match. Ongoing
maintenance will belong to RTD. And with that, I'll open it up to questions.
SHELLEY COOK: All righty. It looks like we've got a couple so far. I'll go from the top. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Henry, I know that in many cases, the shelters that are at
bus stops are not ours. Some of them are ad shelters and some of them belong to the city. On Colfax, are
the shelters that are being built now as part of this, are they ours or is just this box that you're talking
about ours?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: No, the improvements are all RTD's. So we'll have the shelters, the
monuments, the information screens, schedules, security cameras, recorders, all that will belong to RTD
and we will be responsible for maintaining these shelters.
The other thing, with a lot of these shelters that we're going to see out on the Colfax corridor will also be
lit. And they won't look like our typical shelters. This has more of a BRT look. But the improvements will
belong to RTD.
KATE WILLIAMS: You very much. That was my only question.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have two questions. So I'll start with one and see if others
have them, and so I'll put my hand down and put it back up.
My question has to do with the security cameras and our policy on use of artificial intelligence in the
security cameras. I know that our cameras get used to sometimes help solve crimes, or people make
requests, whatever the case may be. But I do have some pretty serious concerns if we are allowing the
use of AI in there, given the disproportionate impact that that has on marginalized populations.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That's a great question. And I'm going to have to punt that one. We're putting
the cameras in for safety and security. And I believe Mike Meader is on the call, and he may be able to
talk a little bit about the artificial intelligence and what the cameras are hooked up into. Mr. Meader, are
you available?
SHELLEY COOK: Looks like he's still muted.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, I'll tell you what, how about if we get back to you, since Mr. Meader-- or is
there anybody else on the phone that has a better idea? Because that's, like I said, outside of my
understanding.

BOBBY DISHELL: Yep, that absolutely works.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: OK. We'll get back to you on that one.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Dishell, did you have any other questions?
BOBBY DISHELL: I did, yeah. The other question is, what sort of happened, and what are we doing going
forward, it looks like we're going to be spending an extra $800,000 because we selected an out-of-state
manufacturer who wasn't familiar with Colorado's weather, is what I can assume based on your
description. And now we went with someone local. And also, why we're being saddled with the cost
overruns. Was it an issue in selection? What did we learn and how can we prevent this sort of error
moving forward?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yeah, that's a great question. So a couple of things to cover. We spec'ed out,
and unfortunately, low bids sometimes gives you-- it meets the minimum requirements, but when we
started looking at the product, we believed that the gaskets, the welding, the material, and then what we
saw last-- Colfax is a heavily used corridor. And with the damages we saw where the protests last year,
we realized the cabinets that we were going to see probably wouldn't hold up. These may not hold up
either but they're are a lot beefier. The electronics inside are sensitive.
And so personally, I believe we could have gone with what we had. But with the long-term maintenance,
we were replacing it quicker. And so for security and everything else, we figured it was better to take care
of it right now. We have a grant that covers 76% of it. And the project is under the initial grant, so we
figured it made sense to go ahead and do the improvements right now.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Thank you so much.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Director Dishell for those questions. I really
appreciate both of them, particularly the question around security.
Henry, if you could, does this-- how does this change the timeline for implementation? And I know it
references October. But is that when our patrons should see the completion of this project?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Total completion project close out in October. So we've already done the civil
improvements. The bus bulb outs are being taken care of. We have all the shelters in place. As soon as I
get the authorization for the Board to go forward, we'll give the notice to proceed to the manufacturer to
do the monuments. It'll take them a couple months to get the monuments put together. And then we'll
start installing, probably 1st of May and through the summer.
So we're not going to wait until the end to just throw it all in there. So as we get one shelter, one
monument, we're going to start installing. So our patrons along Colfax should see, in the May time frame,
these shelters going in. And the goal is to get it done by the end of the summer.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate that. I actually had a question from a constituent recently that
went to a non-GMR, and the date was a bit earlier. And so we might update that, as we are maybe getting
those constituent concerns, that that date is going to be a bit later.
And the second part of my question is regarding the Colfax BRT. A question that came to me from a
constituent was also, how does this project interface with the Colfax BRT? And so maybe if you could
spend a little time briefly talking about that, I appreciate it.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So this is a standalone project. It's not associated with the Colfax BRT. We
have worked with the city on their project. You've got Bill Van Meter and his group has been really
working really close with them. The goal is to incorporate where we can. But once the Colfax BRT gets

put out there, then the question is, what do we do with the infrastructure we've built? Most of it can be
relocated. But that project is still five to seven years out, in our opinion.
They've moved it up, but we still don't have a design. We still don't have a fleet selected. So we've
decided to go forward with our project. And it is wrapping up. And then we'll tie in what we can with the
BRT, and that's kind of where we're at today.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I actually appreciate you sharing that, because I think that at
least the constituents that I speak with, there's some confusion around what belongs to who in terms of
our projects. And I think it's important for them to understand these improvements are of RTD, and the
Colfax BRT belongs to the city and county of Denver.
Thank you so much, Henry.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: No problem.
SHELLEY COOK: Anything else, Director Lewis? No.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Nope, that's it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Returning to the question that Director Dishell had for Mike Meader
about AI and the cabinets. Do we have Mike Meader on board here?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may. I reached out. Mike Meader's having a problem unmuting his
phone.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: He's calling back in to try again.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. It looks like there is a hand up by Mike Meader. So Mr. Meader, are you able to
unmute yet? No?
OK. You know what perhaps could happen, if Director Dishell is fine with it, is Mr. Meader could respond
to us. We could all be copied, but get the answer to your question before we have final approval at the
Board meeting. Would that be all right, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yep, that's fine with me.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director-- or GM Johnson, will that be satisfactory?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, yes. Thank you very kindly. We will adhere to our process where we
actually cite the response and the agenda item and send that forward to the entire Board. So thank you
very much.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Sure. I do show Jyotsna-- oh, she's taken her hand down. All righty.
Well, let's proceed to a vote. We had a motion to approve the change order from Director Broom and a
second from Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede. And so let's go around and get votes, if we may. I'll just do it
alphabetically.
Director Broom, your vote on the change order motion?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director-- oh, got the wrong one here. So yep, I had an old script. Sorry about that,
guys.
Director Davidson?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE. Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm a yes as well. That passes unanimously.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Call to order, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I was not-SHELLEY COOK: Did I skip? OK, sorry about that. Bouquet came after I switched the script up.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I am a yes. I am a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: You're our new first guy. All righty. That seals the deal then. It's unanimous. And
forgive me, Director Bouquet.
All righty. Thank you. And then we'll look for that report back from the staff on the question on AI.
All right. Our second item is the equitable transit oriented development policy. And we did have a nice
introduction to the appeal of doing this earlier tonight, I would just say that.
So I'll read the recommended action. It's recommended by the Planning, Capital Programs, and
FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors approve the attached resolution, and numbered not yet,
but the Equitable Transit-Oriented Development Policy to permit and encourage the development of
affordable housing on RTD real property.
OK. And our staff representative is Chessy Brady. First, I'll see if we have a motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams. Second, Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, who was my movant, please?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So we have a motion and a second. And with that, I'll turn it over to our
representative. Chessy, are you on the line here?
CHESSY BRADY: Yes, I'm here.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, please proceed.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you. And Nikki, could you please scroll down to the PowerPoint? Thank you.
So I'm Chessy Brady, the Transit-Oriented Development Manager in the Planning Department. And in
TOD, what we are trying to do is facilitate private development both on RTD property and adjacent to
stations. And we have a lot of stations. We don't have a ton of land. Most of the land that we own on
which we could develop is active Park-n-Rides.
And Nikki, I'm sorry, we haven't talked about it, but I will let you know when to change the slide. But thank
you.
And all of our land that's active Park-n-Rides, where people are parking to access the system, is difficult
to develop for different reasons. Every piece has different challenges. But we do know that if developers
want to develop on that land, especially residential development, it's more beneficial to RTD that that
residential development be affordable. And we have processes existing to process dispositions, to go
through RFPS or to process unsolicited proposals, all of which, by the way, comes back-- especially for
the new Board members-- comes back to a Board approval.
But what we don't have is guidance or tools that would allow us to encourage affordable housing over
market rate housing. So what this policy is seeking to do is to create those tools and add some of the
clarity, clarity of direction that staff need, and then we can disseminate to jurisdictions and developers in
order to get more affordable housing going.
So next slide, please, and I'll jump in to the policy itself. So again, our goal is to encourage the affordable
residential development on our property. This will increase ridership. This will generate revenue through
ground lease or sale. In the past, we have heard clear Board direction to prefer ground lease, so that's
always the preference that we're taking.
And this also gives us the opportunity to enhance community relationships. We heard a lot from the
Accountability Committee this evening. We've heard about the state audit. There's a lot of opportunities
for us to partner around the District. And this is one way that we can really move the needle and show our
commitment.
The policy itself empowers staff to negotiate, to push developers towards affordable housing and give
them the cost reductions that will allow that to happen. And those cost reductions come from three
different areas of tools, administrative, acquisition costs, and construction costs. So our goal is to reduce
those. Go to the next slide, please.
And of course, the reason that we're talking about this, and it's come up a few times this evening, is that
affordable housing is a pervasive issue, or the lack thereof is a pervasive issue, in the Metro Denver
region. And we're not going to pretend that we can solve it, but we can be a partner in it and we can
maybe move the needle and we can also bring a level of commitment that other jurisdictions can help us
with, can partner from their side.
We've done our research, just ourselves in the Planning Department, showing that residents of affordable
housing are more likely to use transit than market rate residents, meaning that building an affordable
building at our transit station is going to generate more ridership than market rate. And this policy is also
consistent with our statute of promoting public welfare, increasing transit use. It's also a best practice
across the nation to have an equitable TOD practice. And I'll get into more detail on what some of our
peers are doing. And I've already mentioned the enhancements to regional partnerships. And I think
we've seen tonight how important that is that we have those connections. Next slide, please.

So over the last year, we spoke to the Board a number of times about questions, trying to figure out if we
wanted to go towards an equitable TOD policy, what would that look like. And we started by looking at
some of our peer agencies. You see seven of them here, who set goals for affordability. And you can see
the details here. But generally, where they all land is setting out a 20% to 35% goal for all units
constructed on agency property at a 60% to 100% area medium income.
And every agency is going to do it a little, differently depending on the financing available in that state
from the partners, their real estate market, their affordability issues. And they're also going to decide how
they apply that goal. So do they apply it to every project, every project must have 20% or 30% of
affordable units, or is it per station, so every station has to have some representation of affordable
housing, or is it on a portfolio basis? So they're spreading it around the district. So this is something that
we started thinking about as we're coming up with the policy and talking to the Board, talking to the
jurisdictions and the housing authority, et cetera. Next slide, please.
And we also looked at what tools all of our peers were using. Again, you can see the seven across the
top. And my color coding here is the green is the ones that are really applying these particular tools.
Orange is usually a case by case basis or with some tweaks. And red is they explicitly don't do it. Many of
these tools they just don't mention at all. And so there's no explicit policy.
But what they look at in general is parking replacement, which we'll talk about, land discounts, which we,
per statute, cannot do, we must receive fair market value for our land, and then other financial assistance.
Some transit agencies are able to really subsidize affordable housing. We are not in a financial position to
do that right now, or giving preference in RFPs.
So we looked at all of these different ways that other agencies are encouraging affordable housing in their
districts. And again, in conversations with our partners around the District and colleagues within RTD, we
came up with what we think is a good policy that is both ambitious but also achievable. So next slide,
please.
So our policy has five elements. The first is the affordability goal, and then four tools that we suggest the
Board clarify as being options in order to push this affordable goal forward. So next slide, please.
So first, on the goal. We've landed, again, with much consultation, on a 35% goal portfolio-wide over 10
years. And we see this as aspirational. It's also non-binding. Nobody's going to-- you might. I hope the
Board will slap my hand if we don't reach it. But no other powers are going to be holding us accountable,
or legally, in any way, to this goal. But we think it's possible and it will just take some doing.
And the point is to have it apply across the portfolio. Because we have some stations, some Park-n-Rides
that are surrounded by fields, might not be appropriate for affordable housing, might not be feasible for
development at all, or certainly affordable development. We have parcels surrounded by mountains. And
then we have parcels in densely developed areas. And the jurisdictions and their preferences and
requirements and ability to partner also vary widely across our District. So having that be a portfolio goal,
we saw as important.
And the 10-year period gives us time to put different projects together in order to gradually meet that 35%
goal, and we would report back to the Board annually to report on our progress for that.
As far as an area medium income, we've designated affordable, or we've aligned our definition of
affordable to CHFA's definition, or the local definition. We don't want to be in the business of defining it,
because it's really going to come down to the financing. Currently, that it's going to be your 60% ANI. But
we want to make sure that these projects can happen. And that means they have to be financed,

generally through low income housing tax credits, generally through CHFA and with support from
jurisdictions.
And I mentioned the annual reports. Can I get the next slide, please.
So just to illustrate what 35% looks like-- and again, we have properties across the District, some of them,
I'll be perfectly honest with you, they're not going to develop anytime soon. Others are highly developable.
But when it's going to happen, we don't know. We're working towards it, but a lot of it is out of our control.
So not knowing what the universe of potential buildings is going to be, we just tried to look at, what are
these numbers, what does 35% really get us. So if two sites are developed and they have 300 units each
and we have a 35% goal, we're going to get something like 200 affordable units in the next 10 years. If 10
sites are developed, which I would say is a best case scenario, it'll be more like 1,000 units. Again, we're
not solving housing affordability with this policy, but we're moving things in the right direction and we're
showing that we're coming to the table. Next slide, please.
So there's been a lot of talk about parking this evening. Currently, if a developer approaches us seeking
to develop on a Park-n-Ride, we tell them that they're going to have to replace our parking one to one. So
if we have a 200-space surface lot, whether it's 100% utilized or 30% utilized, we're going to say, you
probably are going to have to give us 200 spaces and a structure. At $25,000 a space, that pretty much
kills the deal, or it kills our land value.
And what we'd like to do here is clarify that the parking replacement will be based on future parking
utilization. So if we anticipate the parking utilization will remain at 30%, we're not going to require the
developer to build 100% replacement.
And in the next slide, talk about shared parking. So similar idea that parking is expensive. Building it adds
considerable cost to any development. So where there's ability for us to share parking between transit
users and non-transit users, where it makes sense, and often it doesn't, but where it makes sense, then
we'll be open to discussing that in a development proposal. Next slide.
We're also open to expediting our administration, which really means prioritizing these projects and
potentially waiving fees. These are not something that are a barrier at the moment, but we want to have
the ability to do that if we want. And because we're trying to create certainty for affordable developers,
who especially have difficult financial stacks that they're trying to hold together, we need to provide as
much certainty and as much-- time really is money-- as much, limit the time that we spend deliberating. Of
course, following our processes, making sure we're dotting all the I's and crossing all the T's, but making
sure, ensuring the developers that we can get them to the finish line.
We also would like to look more at potentially entitling property before a developer even steps into the
picture, in order to remove some of those challenges that exist on different properties.
All right. And then the last policy element-- next slide, please-- gets to negotiating land price, which,
again, per the statute, we cannot discount land. It's not allowed. What we do have the flexibility to do is to,
instead of taking fair market value as cash, we can take some of that value in services or capital
improvements. So again, back to parking, what that means is that this clarifies that if a developer is going
to build us a 200-space structure garage, with $25,000 a space is going to cost a lot of money, that we
can make some accommodations in the fair market value, make some accommodations in the purchase
price or the lease price in order to meet that fair market value.

And again, the goal of this is to get the project done, to get a fair deal for RTD, to get affordable housing
built at stations, to increase ridership. And this is just one of the tools that we would use if the financing is
looking difficult.
So last slide is just some of the organizations that we've talked to over the past year-ish, including many
jurisdictions and their housing divisions. CHFA has certainly weighed in and been really helpful. We
wanted to make sure that this was a policy that made sense to all the other parties who are going to be
involved and that they were on board with. And we feel that this is a place where we can come to the
table with a positive, forward thinking policy, even despite our financial issues at the moment, and still
make a difference, show our commitment, and hopefully get some affordable housing built on RTD
property.
So I'll leave it at that. Happy to take questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you for that presentation, and also for the very extensive staff report. It was
really well put together, I thought. Lots of good information.
So looked like we had Chair Rivera-Malpiede up first. Go ahead, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Chessy, this is a great report. And I think this is
an absolutely great opportunity for RTD to really lead this issue, in partnership with nonprofit
organizations all over the region, right. And I'm sitting here thinking about the GES Coalition. I'm thinking
about how the city and county of Denver is landlocked. And I'm thinking about the great opportunities you
have just presented to us in terms of working in collaboration to make sure that we do have affordable
housing.
One of the things that I was thinking about was when you're looking at 20% being affordable housing in
some of these components is the need for two and three bedroom housing units, because of the families,
particularly in my community. I'm really looking forward to learning more about this. But I would really
encourage you to take a look at all of the organizations that are really trying to think outside of the box to
look at housing components for community members who really struggle to make ends meet.
And so I just want to say thank you. And I am so willing to sit down, if you need my input or not need my
input or you need me to connect you with my community, I'm more willing to do that. So thank you so
much, Chessy.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: I'll just go down the line. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you from me too, Chessy. I've always been impressed with this project. You
and your team have done a lot of work. And it's really good work. I think you heard from the Accountability
Committee Chairs, it's really important to them and to their local jurisdictions. And I think our cities and
our partners will appreciate it.
I saw that one of the groups you talked with was the town of Superior. And I think I remember, but I don't
remember the details. Is it the McCaslin Park-n-Ride, is that an area that's a potential for affordable
housing?
CHESSY BRADY: Yes, that would be the one. And it's been looked at before. And I hope we'll look at it
again.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Looks promising at this point? Or just a lot to-CHESSY BRADY: Comes down to the parking, like most of these.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Thanks.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Chessy, thank you. This was a really great
presentation.
Two questions. I guess, the first one is, could you shed some light on the decision that went into
presenting a non-binding goal as opposed to a floor of, say, 10% with an aspiration of hitting 35?
CHESSY BRADY: Because we wanted to-- we felt that it was necessary to go portfolio-wide. And not
knowing where buildings are going to pop up, we felt that we couldn't set a floor. Because if, I mean, God
forbid, but because I'm the TOD Manager, I want more development. But if we only develop one building
in the next 10 years and it's somewhere that doesn't want affordable housing, what are we going to do?
And because so much of this is out of our control. So that's the primary reason.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. And the other question or comment I had is, I'm very-- for what it's worth-- against
reducing our purchase prices for expensive parking spaces. Do we offer, in TOD, either free passes or
fully discount our Live passes to our affordable folks, to folks who qualify who live there, just so that in
addition to really getting that development, we're also giving the first residents, or the residents for the first
5 to 10 years, a free pass to go use our system, so that we're building that habit and it's a part of that
community even more so.
CHESSY BRADY: That's something we always talk about with developers who are building, especially
anywhere near our stations. As RTD, we don't have a program for giving free passes, but that's absolutely
something we would-- I don't know if we'll require it of the developer, but we'd push strongly for it. And
EcoPasses, NecoPasses, neighborhood EcoPasses, which can be applied to residential buildings, are
very cost effective. And that's something we sell really hard to the developers building out our stations.
And again, it's you get one or two years at a really reasonable price. And as you say, gets people hooked,
or so we hope.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you so much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And excellent presentation. And so I understand that you
and your team put a lot of thought into the 35%. And I'm curious if there might be some allocation from 0
to 35%, so that possibly some of the units might go to folks who are homeless or very low income.
CHESSY BRADY: Right. So the 35% is, Say, if we build 100 units total over the next 10 years in two
different buildings, we'll have 35 units total. So it's a 35% of all the units constructed will be affordable.
And they will be affordable at what's typically a 60% area medium income. Or that's our floor, according
to, per CHFA. So if the developer is able to finance them at lower than that, that would be excellent. We
have people of all different incomes who need affordable housing. But it's not something that we could
require. Because the financing gets more difficult and more complicated, and we didn't want to, there's
potential for saying, OK, x percentage of all units must be between 80% and 100, and x percentage
between 60 and 80, and so on, AMI.
But we decided to simplify. And again, also if we have really good luck with this policy, we can make it
more ambitious in coming years, or if the financing rules change also.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Everyone has frozen on my computer. Was I called on?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Shelley, you're on mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, Shelley, you're muted.

SHELLEY COOK: I'm the one on mute. OK. So I was calling on Director Catlin. First of all, forgive me for
that. And I didn't hear her because she didn't hear me. Director Catlin, are you there?
PEGGY CATLIN: I am. Can you hear me?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, loud and clear.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Chessy, I also wanted to thank you for all the work that you've put into this. And I
very much appreciated the couple of meetings that you all took the time to have with me one-on-one, just
to really delve into the details of this.
I had a couple of things. I read an opinion piece, or an op ed piece, that was critical of your parking
assumptions. And I think that we might need to be prepared to answer that particular assertion that they
weren't correct and that they may have been, the data may have been within the COVID period and
therefore it wasn't reliable, and some of those types of things. That, I just would like you to maybe speak
to that and how you came up with your assumptions.
The assumption that ridership would likely increase with affordable housing provided at our stations, I
think, is a very, very sound argument. I just know that there had been a concern about the parking
availability and that we had a surplus of parking that could be utilized. That was one thing.
The other thing I really appreciate about this proposal is that it's aspirational. It's very flexible. I like that
it's portfolio-wide. And I think we need to make sure that we don't overregulate it or overprescribe it to the
point that we discourage developers coming in. And I think we just need to make sure that it's a win for
them as well.
So those are my comments. Thank you.
CHESSY BRADY: I agree on that. I think there are so many challenges already with developing our
property, that if we want to encourage affordable residential development over other types of
development, then we have to play ball.
I think the op ed, I think I read the same op ed, and I think it was in reference to our parking report, which
we put out about a month ago, which looked at private residential buildings, not on RTD land, just private
buildings, and counted how many cars were being used, or how many spaces were being used and how
many spaces were open. And then the ultimate finding being that developers were building 50%, shall we
say, too many parking spaces than were ever being used.
And the op ed, and some readers, confused what we were counting. Because we were not counting RTD
surface lots, or RTD structures, which is really the subject of our potential for affordable housing, but
rather private buildings. And so I'm happy to talk to you about it offline, Peggy, or see, make sure we're
talking about the same thing. Also happy to share that parking report. But it's a different question, I think.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might. I just know that there was some criticism and I just wanted us to be able to
respond. Because I think this is a great plan. I really do, or a great policy. But I just know that there were
some holes being poked in some of the assumptions. And I think you're right, it was more about the
private sector, but it could also translate and the issue could get confused
CHESSY BRADY: Yes. And if there are questions about what parking we can replace or should replace,
that's certainly valid. And I think we wouldn't use current parking utilization as a representation of how
many spaces could be removed from any given lot, for example.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Appreciate that.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Two points. First of all, for the benefit of the new
Directors on the Board, Chessy and her staff did meet individually with each of the Directors to discuss
this matter last year, and studied very closely the comments and recommendations that we made in
coming up with this particular proposal. So this really is something that has gone through the crucible of
Director involvement. And I think that's worthwhile to note.
Secondly, one thing that we have talked about in regard to this is ensuring that our aspiration of creating
this greater inventory of affordable housing is actually achieved and not merely an expedient for
developers to say that they're going to do affordable housing, put someone in there for a short period of
time, and then, when that person leaves, maybe pursuant to a lease after a year or two, that it goes to a
market rate housing, and that developer, who may have, emphasize may, may have received a discount
on the purchase price of the land all of a sudden is receiving an incredible return on investment. And so
deed restrictions to keep those units as affordable units for people who qualify is something that is part of
this plan as well.
Am I correctly summarizing that, Chessy?
CHESSY BRADY: Absolutely. That any agreement that we come to with a developer will require
affordability for the long term.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And I thank you very much. And that's all I had, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you for bringing that to our attention. This was a fantastic project. And
the Board's involvement with attainable housing kind of slipped under the radar, at least as far as I was
concerned. So I congratulate everybody on working on it.
One thing that did not slip under the radar is that every jurisdiction in the metro area is trying to work
through attainable housing issues. And one of the things that Chessy referred to as that financing for an
affordable project is kind of like a Jenga game, you know, it's multilayered, and sometimes you can pull
out a piece. But one piece you cannot pull out is getting the nod from CHFA to get the tax credits. And I
think RTD's contribution toward this can make a major difference for the CHFA approval of a project in
what's a highly competitive process.
So this is really exciting. And thank you, Chessy.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Looks like Director Lewis, do you have a question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I do. Thank you, Madam Chair. I've grown so accustomed to you calling us all in order
that I forget to raise my hand. So forgive me for that last minute hand raise.
I had a quick question of clarity for you, Chessy. You mentioned to Director Rosenthal's question, or his
inquiry about the Area Median Income, the AMI, not being able to, or not really wanting to go below the
60% because it makes it a bit tougher to be able to execute on that. Is that correct?
CHESSY BRADY: Not wanting to require it. Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK. Well, that's helpful. I mean, it's-- sorry, Chessy. Of course, you know, it's
hard not to-- it's hard to look at that number in the middle of a global pandemic when lots of folks are
losing housing. But I don't have to tell you that, because I think I'm probably preaching to the choir in that
regard. And so I won't.
But what I will ask you, on packet page 45, number two, it says, the quantity of replacement parking
based on projected future parking utilization. And over the weekend, I had a conversation with some

constituents, and it seems like the goal is to figure out how to lower rents, to offer affordable housing,
versus to project parking. And I just wonder how, if instead of having parking based on projecting future
parking, if the goal isn't around parking but it's about housing. Does that make sense? I can repeat it.
CHESSY BRADY: So the reason that we would project future utilization is, say, again, say we have a
100-space parking lot that a developer is interested in. It's currently utilized at 30%. But our modelers are
saying that in 25 years, it will be utilized at 50%. Then the 50% would be a more appropriate level of
replacement, as opposed to 100%. But there's no need for the developer to build for RTD all those
unused spaces. Does that help clarify?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, that totally makes sense. And maybe what I'm proposing is a bit more aggressive,
and maybe that's not my intention. But I wondered, even if the projections were 50%, if we still kept that
goal at 30% in order to encourage folks not to utilize those vehicles and to utilize public transportation.
And so that's my thinking, but that's maybe not what's being presented here.
CHESSY BRADY: I see your thinking. And that's not what we've presented here. Certainly, I think if the
Board or RTD wanted to go that way in the future, we could certainly make that change.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. And I just wanted to underscore, I really appreciate Director Dishell
bringing up the transit passes as a parking strategy. I just absolutely love that.
And my last comment is, there was an ETOD report that I read out of Chicago. And one of the things that
was a part of that was to have a evaluation criteria for projects. So like a-- oh, it just went out of my head.
, Gosh I'm sorry, Chessy.
CHESSY BRADY: Well, I could-- I'm not sure where you were going-- but I could say that what we're
hoping to do with this policy is set general requirements. And then any individual project is going to be
different. And we will put individual requirements on any RFP that goes out, for example, or any
unsolicited proposal that comes in and then goes through a bid process, we'll make requirements. And so
I think we have a lot of opportunity to, depending on the needs and/or requirements of any given property,
we have the ability to alter what we're getting, what we want, and evaluate each one.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. That-- yes, OK. So the question that I had is could a portion of that evaluation, or
could a part of that evaluation be a scorecard where our community partners or government partners
could use it to assess future projects and programs so that there's specific criterion for which we are
evaluating each project?
CHESSY BRADY: I mean, I think where we've looked at this before with our jurisdiction partners,
because usually we would be doing these developments in partnership with them, in some respect,
whether financial or otherwise. So I think there are definitely opportunities to work with them to do those
evaluations. I'm not sure if that answers your question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does. Thank you.
CHESSY BRADY: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair, for a second bite at the apple. So now I'm going
to talk about TDM components with my TMA hat on. And you know, it seems to me, Chessy, that this is
our opportunity to really kind of make a difference in how we move forward as an agency, and partnering
with all the Transportation Management Association and organizations that RTD partners with who has
their finger on the pulse of the community, number one.

But number two, working with developers to provide TDM kinds of programming, whether it be transit
passes, e-bike stations, different modes of transportation that community members can access at an
affordable rate as part of their commitment to this affordable housing and being able to utilize our land, I
think might be a really good thing to look at right now. Especially since we're setting it in terms of how we
want to move forward as a community and partnering with a variety of collaborators, that could really
provide different ways of accessing transit through different modes of transportation.
CHESSY BRADY: Absolutely. And we always do and will connect any developers with their local TMA.
Because they really know how transit works in that neighborhood and what will work best for the
development. So there's lots of opportunities there.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Seeing no other hands up, I would point out a couple things. One, if I recall that
parking study that you mentioned earlier in response to Director Catlin's question, that showed the largest
reduction in parking use for not only the affordable housing programs, but those where all the residents
had an EcoPass, correct? So it seems like to the extent you're negotiating around the parking
requirements, that gives you some information and data. So would support the idea of really stressing
that. Because there were only about 8% that were providing those for their residents, and that would have
a beneficial impact.
Director Tisdale, thank you for pointing out that we'd had other people, or in the past we'd had the
chance, with the prior Board, to meet with Chessy and Bill Sirois and so forth. And Chessy, I know you
would like to extend that offer as well. And I just wanted to underscore that. For new folks who'd like to
get acquainted with what Chessy does, which is fabulous stuff, and/or just delve into this more deeply,
she'd be happy to meet with you.
And then I did want to say to Marjorie Sloan, that's a very good point about CHFA. That will help with
CHFA's determination about whether to grant the tax credits. So thank you for that.
And so all right. Well, we'll go ahead. We had a motion by Chair Rivera-Malpiede and a second by
Director Williams. And what I'll do is I'll go around and get votes here.
So Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Rosenthal?

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Good. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. And thank you, Chessy.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And I am a yes as well. I like that we're getting this in place. And Chessy has
emphasized that we'll have a chance to revisit, if the goals need to be better or more or whatnot. So it's
really exciting.
All right. That passes unanimously, everybody present voting yes. And so now on the agenda, we're on to
Other Matters. Do we have any other matters for the Committee before we adjourn?
OK. Well, our next meeting date is April 6, 2021. And I'll entertain a motion to adjourn.
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Dishell moved, and who was the second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. We have a motion and a second. Anybody opposed to the adjournment, or to the
motion to adjourn? All right. Thank you, everybody. Thanks very much.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, guys. Have a good night.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.

