Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 6,
2010
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

July 7, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
July 6, 2010 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Vice Chair Bagley, Directors Busck, Daly, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
Martinez, O’Boyle, Pulliam, and Tobiassen
Directors Brohl, Christopher, Cohen, McMullen and Tayer

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Terry Howerter, Caitlin Magee, Anthony Menendez, Paula
Perdue, Teresa Sedmak, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Henry
Stopplecamp, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, and Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Brian Middleton, Bob Wilson, Dee Wisor (Sherman & Howard), Jeff Leib
(The Denver Post), Cassie Milestone (Downtown Denver Partnership),
John Desmond (Downtown Denver Partnership), Megan Jones
(Downtown Denver Partnership), Bob Kochevar (City and County of
Denver)
****

Call to Order:

Vice Chair Bagley called the meeting at 5:31 p.m.

I.

Updates
Downtown Denver Partnership – Mall Update – Director Bill James introduced John
Desmond, Cassie Milestone, and Megan Jones of the Downtown Denver Partnership.
Ms. Milestone gave the presentation on the options under consideration for the 16th
Street Mall rehabilitation. They are halfway through the planning process for the
redevelopment of the Mall. This is a revitalization project from Civic Center station to
the Millennium Bridge in the Central Platte Valley. The design team is integrating
efforts with the redevelopment of DUS.
A big focus is on cross street improvements and ways to alleviate pressures in the
median to make the mall safer. Some of the options include: widening curb ramps,
countdown crosswalk signals and audible crosswalk signals.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 6,
2010
Page 2 of 4

 Three options for the original section of the Mall –
1. Reorganizing the median space
2. Expanding the North sidewalk – getting rid of the median and
enlarging the sidewalk space.
3. Shifted Westbound lane – expanded North sidewalk.
DDP wants to propose some ideas for Market Street Station that includes restoring
the sidewalk at Market St. Station after DUS opens and adding flagstone sidewalk
as well as realigning the pedestrian sidewalk to match the LoDo section of the mall.
LoDo options for the Mall –
1.
Expand sidewalks equally in the LoDo section – get rid of one through lane
2.
Widen sidewalk on the South side – again getting rid of one through lane
3.
Hardscape median – turn existing bus lane into a hardscape median, no
space for pedestrians or vendors
The Partnership recently completed a grant with RTD to FTA for $60 million to fund
this project.
Director O’Boyle asked about the differing width sidewalks, why is the North side
the narrowest when it is the sunnier side. Ms. Milestone thought that was a good
point and would add it to the comments that the partnership has received.
Director Busck was concerned about passenger safety and running buses side by
side if the median is eliminated. What are we going to do for the next twenty
years? Look at some unique vehicles that can give an environmental message,
make something pleasing to the eye and efficient. Ms. Milestone said that
sustainability is very important to the DDP. John Shonsey shared that the goal is to
preserve the integrity of the existing mall. He also emphasized there would be
tradeoffs that are not necessarily beneficial to transit.
Director Pulliam was concerned that this is change for the sake of change and not
necessarily for the sake of need.
Project has always been based on the premise that this will remain a pedestrian and
transit mall. The goal is to preserve ambiance as much as mobility. RTD has done a
lot of work to look at light rail/Streetcar option and we cannot achieve ridership and
pedestrian requirements and have them co-exist. Mr. Shonsey said the first purpose
is to transport 50,000 passengers per day.
Director Martinez asked about Options 1 – 3, are any LoDo options dependent on
what is chosen on the original part of the mall? Or are they all original. Mr.
Shonsey said they are all original.
Director Martinez wanted to know about the current blocks where there aren’t
medians is there a change in the way people cross the mall? Mr. Shonsey said staff

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 6,
2010
Page 3 of 4

has looked at accident statistics and no one section of the mall stands out. The
accident rate is very low due to our excellent drivers. Accidents are the same for
whether there is a median or not. Director Martinez likes the idea of marking off the
curbs and sees this as a great enhancement.
Director Daly wanted to know if drivers were part of the discussion. Mr. Shonsey
said that personnel from Bus Operations are on the technical committee.
Director James thanked the DDP and the Committee for the dialogue. The DDP has
received over 3700 comments on the Mall options so far. Schedule: The Steering
committee will make a final recommendation in late July or early August 2010. It
will go to Bill Vidal at the City and County of Denver and then come back to the
Board.
Director James said it is about making places where people want to be.
Director Malpiede thought that people liked option one but that retailers had
concerns. Ms. Milestone said it is mixed feedback depending on stakeholder group.
The most support has been for option one. Retailers like option two or 2.1 for the
extra sidewalk space.
Director Bagley said that the 16th Street Mall is critical to FasTracks and the
redevelopment of DUS. This is a major effort with the city and County of Denver.
We are all in this together, not just for the Mall but how it links in with all the transit
within the metro area.
Director Martinez was concerned about the street vending program being available
in all option. Ms. Milestone said the vending program is considered in all options.
II. Recommended Action


Grant of Permanent Easement for Utility Facilities to the City of Lakewood,
Approximately 13th Place and Kipling Street – Susan Altes presented this action.
As part of the Kipling street project by the City of Lakewood to improve
pedestrian and traffic movement, the City needs a permanent easement on this
section of property. It is a local project done in connection with CDOT. This will
benefit the West Corridor as it will make it easier for people to access the light
rail station.
Director O’Boyle wanted to know if this is a surplus property. Can we sell the
rest of it? Ms. Altes replied that the property has very little value at this time.
It is not developable due to the number of easements and our light rail bridge
will further encumber it.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to convey a permanent easement for utility facilities

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 6,
2010
Page 4 of 4

containing approximately 1,465 square feet plus improvements to the City of
Lakewood for the construction, operation and maintenance of the City’s
Intersection Improvement Project to be placed in part upon RTD property located
at approximately West13th Place and Kipling Street.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the July 20,
2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

III. Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.
IV. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is
scheduled for August 3, 2010.
V. Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Committee Vice-Chair Bagley adjourned the Planning &
Development Committee meeting at 6:13 p.m.

