Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 15, 2011
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Corrected Minutes

Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

November 16, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
November 15, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
and Walker.
Director Anderson.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, David Genova,
Adrina Gibson, Mike Gil, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Doug
MacLeod, Karen Morales, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez,
Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Steve Reilly, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa
Sedmak, Daria Serna, Roger Sherman, John Shonsey, Greg Smith, Greg
Straight, Walt Stringer, Jim Sutton, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas,
Christina Tubb, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington and Phil
Washington.

Others Present:

Dee Wisor – Sherman and Howard.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 5:53 p.m.

Recommended Action
 January 2012 Service Changes – Lyons to Longmont Service
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement with Boulder County to
provide Express bus service between the Town of Lyons and the City of Longmont.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 15, 2011
Page 2 of 5

This agreement will be valid from January 8, 2012 to May 12, 2012 and may be
amended for future periods. Funding for this service will be provided by Boulder
County.
Bruce Abel explained that Boulder County received a grant for this service and
funding will be provided entirely by them. From a process perspective, the Board will
allow us to spend the $20,016 and Boulder County will reimburse RTD.
Director Malpiede inquired what would happen after 4 months if we end the service.
Bruce Abel indicated that Boulder County’s plan is to come back to us with another
grant to continue this service.
Director O’Boyle suggested that we provide notification in vehicles indicating that
this is a short term route provided by Boulder County.
Director Tayer noted that this is an interim step and that there is a great deal of
excitement regarding this opportunity.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to forward
this item to the full Board at the November
22, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with (12) in favor
(Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and (1) against
(Malpiede). Director Anderson was absent
from this vote.
Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that this
action item is moving forward under
recommended action.


Contract Amendment for Contract 16-DO-025 with Merrick & Company for
Architecture/Engineering Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 16-DO-025 with
Merrick & Company to allow for additional architectural/engineering design services in
the amount of $500,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $2,100,000
and to extend the contract duration to December 31, 2013. Work is administered on
an as-needed, work order basis. The amended amount and duration is primarily
dedicated to the Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way (MOW) project.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 15, 2011
Page 3 of 5

David Genova indicated that this contract will finish the design work on the project.
Motion:

Director McMullen made the motion to
forward this item to the full Board at the
November 22, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed Unanimously. Director
Anderson was absent from this vote.
II.

Information
 Communications Department Fourth Quarter PI Outreach and Advertising
Scott Reed explained that to continue with our fiscally responsible theme, we are
developing these programs at the lowest possible cost within existing resources. We
are performing creatively in-house whenever possible and relying on trade advertising
opportunities, partnerships, and advertising on/in our own vehicles.
Director O’Boyle indicated that we should look into providing free rides on St.
Patrick’s Day as a form of community outreach.
 Asset Management – State of Good Repair Update
Chair Kemp noted that this is not only for State of Good Repair, but for how we can
approach things in the future.
Director O’Boyle added that we are definitely on the right track. This is a vast
improvement concept than what we are used to. This is a well articulated plan that
will help this agency greatly.
Director Walker asked if we coordinate with other jurisdictions for things that we
cannot control such as roads. David Genova indicated that yes, we do.
Director Daly questioned what our process was previously.
David Genova indicated that the system was a lot more manual. This program will
have quantitative assessments to help us as we move forward.
General Manager Washington added that with this information we will be able to
discern what will need to be fixed, or identify which particular fleets that have more
maintenance issues than others. This will also allow us to strategically plan our
budget appropriately. One great example of this is the 16th Street Mall Pilot Paver
program.
Director James added that this will enhance the utilization our resources.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 15, 2011
Page 4 of 5



Quarterly Reports – Competitive Services, Special Services, ADA, Safety and
Security
Bruce Abel indicated that a quick point for ADA is that we continue to manage the
growth of the Access-a-Ride component of the ADA.
Director McMullen added that complaints have been going down continuously since
2008.
Director O’Boyle further added that the number of commendations is equal to the
number of complaints. Since those figures are equal, we must be doing a pretty good
job.
Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that for the first quarter of 2011 there were
33,266 trips for Access-a-Cab, which is a very high figure and asked how many trips
were for Access-a-Ride for that same time period. Bruce Abel indicated that there
were a total of 525,793 Access-a-Ride and 104,649 Access-a-Cab trips year to date.
 ADA Customer Service Update
Bruce Abel noted that Director O’Boyle alluded to the ADA Customer Service update
with the commendations and complaints numbers. Also, Larry Buter provided a sheet
of the Access-a-Ride terms and definitions to the Board.
 ADA Audit Update
Larry Buter explained that the Access-a-Ride summary list defines the specific items
that we audit and their individual parameters.
Chair Kemp thanked Mr. Buter for all of his communications to the various ADA
groups within the district clarifying whether or not their service would be disrupted
due to boundary changes. The immediate responses have been phenomenal and
greatly appreciated. Larry Buter appreciated Chair’s comments and added that this
was a team effort.
 ADA Driver Training Update
Larry Buter explained that per our settlement agreement last year we are hiring a
consultant to come in beginning in January to perform an extensive audit of our
driver training program at each of our carriers. This is going to serve two goals; one
to meet our settlement agreement and the other to use the results and
recommendations of the assessment in a new RFP for future Access-a-Ride
contracts.
 ADA ¾ mile/time and day issue Update
Bruce Abel asked that this item be moved since we are already in a dialogue
regarding ADA services. Bruce Abel added that we have had an opportunity to meet
with Colorado Cross Disabilities Coalition, Atlantis Adapt, and Colorado Center for
the Blind. We have engaged all of them in conversation regarding the issues that are
arising as a result of two separate issues. One, the upgrade of the ADA software in
August and second the service changes and potential impacts of those changes

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on November 15, 2011
Page 5 of 5

within the disabled community. There have been very positive conversations and the
overriding theme is that these groups have fought long and hard so that individuals
with disabilities would be treated equally and they are not as interested in seeing
special provisions made for their particular communities as we might have otherwise
expected. At this point in time, we are communicating with individuals whose trips
are outside the ¾ mile or outside of the time/day of service and indicating that if they
have made these trips before we will continue to provide those services until the end
of 2012. This will give us an adequate amount of time to work with them both in
terms of providing alternatives and allow us to continue to work on how we will
address these issues in the future.
 Radio-CAD/AVL Project Status Update
Bruce Abel noted that this update was included in the packet. There were no
questions from the Directors regarding this item.
 SMT Project Status Update
Bruce Abel explained that we have re-baselined the project and are working through
final design reviews.
 Farebox Update
Bruce Abel noted that as the Board is aware, we are in the process of replacing the
fare boxes. We have replaced the fare boxes in each of the private contractors
operating divisions including Boulder. We are currently moving into the East Metro
division and will move on to Platte. The anticipated schedule of replacement at all
divisions should be completed by the end of the year.
Director Walker referring to the Smart Card Update inquired about the Smart Card
Stickers and asked if the stickers interfere with or damage work badges.
Bruce Abel explained that we will have two forms of media in the smart card
program. One will be a Smart Card and for those organizations that use their own ID
cards we will provide a sticker. If there are multiple RIFD circuits/chips within close
proximity to each other we have to work through some technical issues there.
Currently, we cannot put a sticker onto an RIFD card and have it work as well as we
would like to.
III.

Other Matters
None

IV.

Next Meeting Date – December 13, 2011

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 6:37 p.m. to the Finance Administration and Audit Committee.

