Jun 13 2019 1200 PM Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: Good afternoon. For the sake of the record, it is now 12:06 PM, Mountain
Daylight Time, on Thursday, June 13, 2019. And I now call to order the RTD Executive
Committee Meeting, convened here in the RTD Board conference room. For the sake of the
record, if we could go around the room and have people identify themselves. We have one
person on the phone. And so after the other four people in the room identify themselves, then I
will ask the person on the phone to identify herself. But I'll begin with Madam Treasurer.
SHELLEY COOK: Shelley Cook is here.
JEFF WALKER: Jeff Walker is here.
DAVE GENOVA: Dave Genova.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Barbara McManus.
DOUG TISDALE: And now on the phone.
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Peggy Catlin.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And as I said, this is Doug Tisdale. The only person
that we are missing right at this moment is our Second Vice Chair, Director Angie RiveraMalpiede, who may or may not be here.
On our agenda, the first item that we have is a recommended action item. This was tabled from
our last Executive Committee meeting. It is the proposed expense policy amendment. By way of
background, several members of the Executive Committee addressed a concern to me, and
requested that we draft something to respond to the concern. And so this expense policy
amendment, as proposed under recommended action, is what was created.
We had a brief discussion about this last time. And it was determined then by the committee to
table it to this time. So my first question is whether there is a continuing appetite for the
consideration of this amendment or not. And the easiest way to find that out is to ask, is there a
motion to adopt the expense policy amendment as presented?
SHELLEY COOK: I'll move it.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, second.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so there is a motion and a second to do that. Let's have further
consideration on it now. And really, this is-- in effect, I should say it was a motion to take up
from the table, because it has been tabled to now. So we've taken it up from the table. We had
discussion previously. Let me ask-- and Madam Vice Chair, I'm going to go to you first, because
it was specifically at your request that this was initiated, and then was tabled. So I'd like to have
your thoughts, please.

PEGGY CATLIN: Certainly. I was a little bit concerned that it might be perceived as targeting a
person and that it might be better to address that offline with some separate discussions. And I
believe you did do that, Chair. So the amendment as worded, I'm very comfortable with at this
point. So I just thought we needed to take a little time to afford the courtesy to others about this
policy.
DOUG TISDALE: And I do appreciate your comments. Because yes, I did speak with several
Directors as to whom this may or may not be applicable, and found no resistance or expression
of concern associated with it. So I think it works. So I'm not unduly concerned about that.
Let me just advise, for the sake of the record, that I have heard from Second Vice Chair, who's
currently on the bus, and would like to have the telephone number that she can call in to. Let me
just ask our Executive Manager if she wouldn't mind just keying that in so I can continue the
meeting. All right-PEGGY CATLIN: No, Chair, I really do appreciate your outreach and the courtesy of one-onone conversations. So I think that the pause or tabling it was appropriate, and I just really
appreciate that you did that. So I'm fine, and I'm going back on mute.
[CHAIR TISDALE CHUCKLING]
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much. Any further discussion on the motion?
Hearing none, would all those in favor of adopting the expense policy amendment please
indicate by saying aye.
JEFF WALKER: Aye
SHELLEY COOK: Aye.
PEGGY CATLIN: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, then that motion passes unanimously. And I believe that our Second
Vice Chair may be joining us here momentarily, because we've given her the information as to
how to dial in while she is commuting in via bus.
I didn't say, at the beginning of the meeting, and I should now, because I know this is also being
video-recorded, and there are people who may wonder why are we having a luxurious lunch of
Maggiano's great Italian food. The answer is because this is a taste test, and the Executive
Committee is the guinea pig for tasting various proposed providers of food for the RTD. And
people would say, well, Maggiano's, that's a lovely, wonderful Italian restaurant, isn't that more
expensive? As it turns out, restaurants often are cheaper than the catering companies that we use.
And so therefore we experiment to see A, how is the food, B, how is the quantity, and C, what is
the cost? So you are part of that grand experiment.
SHELLEY COOK: They deliver.

DOUG TISDALE: Moving on, then, to the June Board Meeting Agenda review-- you have
before you the June Board Meeting Agenda. There is one change. Oh, and did I hear a ring-in
from our Second Vice Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You certainly did. This is Director Malpiede, Chairman.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. So the record will reflect that
Second Vice Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede has joined us on the telephone. For your information,
Director Vice Chair Peggy Catlin is also on the telephone with you. Present in the room is
Treasurer Shelley Cook and Secretary Jeff Walker, General Manager Dave Genova, and
Executive Manager Barbara McManus and me. And you're missing, but hopefully you'll soon be
able to enjoy, when you arrive here, a terrific lunch catered by Maggiano's, for the reason I just
expressed on the record.
All right, in the June Board Meeting Agenda review, there is one change that does not reflect on
your copy that we want to bring to your attention. Under Roman XIV, Old Business, we will
specifically list the FasTracks staff update, pursuant to Resolution 004, Series of 2019.
Specifically during that time, our General Manager will be able to provide further comment on a
document that I am informed you will receive sometime late Friday afternoon, which is the
report that was mandated in the April 16, 2019 resolution adopted by the Board as Resolution
004, Series 2019. That is in addition to the agenda.
So now I'll open up for comments on the June Board Meeting agenda. I'll actually ask the
General Manager first, is that where you want that in your group, with putting that in the agenda
there?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, Mr. Chair. So we discussed, at Senior Leadership Team yesterday where
would be the most appropriate place to put it. And we all felt that under Old Business would be a
good place. And we wanted to list it very specifically, so the Board would know, but then also
our stakeholders would know that we're going to give- and it's going to be a brief presentation,
and then of course we can answer the Board's questions.
But if I may, at this time, Chair, would it be appropriate to just brief the Executive Committee on
what to expect in that evening?
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
DAVE GENOVA: So we've been working on the draft initial report on the steps-- outlining the
steps for a path forward for FasTracks. So it is just that. It's draft. It's going to have draft
watermark throughout. It's really discussing possibilities, it's not recommendations. And I say
that, and I'll make it clear in the cover memo that I put on it with the email that the Board will
receive sometime tomorrow.
Because I don't want people to jump to conclusions. Because you will see some things in here
about different kinds of funding options. And you'll see some different scenarios. And I will say,
one does involve a sales tax increase. So we're very conscientious about creating an expectation.

And so I'm going to try to be very clear with the language in the report, but then also upfront that
the Board will receive, and that I will talk about verbally at the Board meeting on Tuesday. But
this is-- in fact, I kind of call it, casually, a report on possibilities. And it's not a report on, this is
the road, this is the path right now.
So we will do a very brief presentation on Tuesday night. There's a lot of information in the
report. It's a lot to digest. And the intent on Tuesday will be to make some of the remarks I've
just made now to the Executive Committee on what the report is and what it is not, and then just
to kind of walk through the outline of the report. I really won't go into detail on what the report
contains, but just walk through the outline. And then of course we'll be responsive to questions
from the Board, should the Board have any questions.
But then what we will do is, on the July 9-- and this will all be spelled out in my cover memo-the July 9 Finance Committee, we will repeat what we've put in the Board package in the
Finance Committee package. So again, the draft report will appear with a very brief PowerPoint.
And at that time, really, what we'll be interested in from the staff perspective is the Board will
have had about three weeks to read and digest it, and perhaps talk to stakeholders and receive
some input from them as well. Because I have received questions from stakeholders about, can I
get this report, because everybody's familiar with the resolution and everything.
And so on July 9, that'll be the opportunity for us to really receive input, and feedback, and be
even more responsive to questions that the Board will have after the Board's had time to digest it
and review it. And then of course that kind of begins our process of just kind of fine-tuning and
hearing from the Board on the paths you'd like us to take, paths you don't really want us to take,
and it'll be really kind of a living document from there forward.
It's been a lot of work by the staff to put what we've put together in this 60-day period. And I will
just say, it's a little bit unusual that we're doing this at a Board meeting, but the 60th day is
Saturday. And so we wanted to be responsive and make the date instead of coming and asking
the Board-- and to show the stakeholders that we're really delivering what we said, both from the
Board and the staff perspective.
So normally we'd bring this through at a committee, but because of the timing, that's why we're
doing it in the way we're doing it. And I'm doing it under a separate email cover because the
packet material was due yesterday, and we're still formatting, and tweaking, and needing every
moment we can to get the report in good shape. So I think I'll just leave it there, Mr. Chairman,
unless there's any other questions about that for now.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me summarize if I may. This will be a draft report. It is the initial report
that is directly responsive to and timely submitted pursuant to Resolution 004, and that it is an
iterative process that you anticipate will result, with further changes based upon interaction
with/feedback from not only the Board, but all other stakeholders. Thank you.
So, questions for General Manager. [INAUDIBLE] And just on the agenda item. If you have
other questions, then that's separate.

JEFF WALKER: I'll bring it back after we [INAUDIBLE].
DOUG TISDALE: So that agenda item will be added to the Board agenda, under Old Business.
Any further comments or changes to the June Board agenda? Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just wanted it to be noted that the item that we voted on earlier will
fall under unanimous consent, on the Board agenda for Tuesday.
DOUG TISDALE: That's true, because it's unanimous from the Executive Committee.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate the clarification and the information. Anything
further, relative to the June Board Meeting agenda? We are, just for your information, hopeful
that we do have someone for the Pledge of Allegiance. But I was very happy to see that the
Monday morning dispatch included a promo for finding children to lead us in the Pledge of
Allegiance, which I promptly cut-and-pasted into my LinkedIn, and my Facebook, and my
Twitter accounts so that we could spread the words. So if you know of young people who would
like to lead us in the pledge, please bring them forward.
Any further comments on the June Board meeting agenda?
SHELLEY COOK: Didn't you have something, Jeff?
JEFF WALKER: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Under general-- yeah, I think under other matters-- for General Manager. All
right, hearing nothing further-- I'm sorry, please.
SHELLEY COOK: We're on the agenda, correct?
DOUG TISDALE: We are on the agenda.
SHELLEY COOK: So on the litigation, just as a thought, it wouldn't require action, I don't think,
now. But given the sensitivity and concerns that were expressed, the idea of having the Chair and
Vice Chair be a little bit more engaged than perhaps is normally the case for a matter of
litigation. And I just wanted to bring that up. And perhaps if it's agreed to by this group, we
could talk about that at the meeting too, as a way to assuage or address some of the concerns that
were present then.
DOUG TISDALE: An excellent suggestion. I will offer, as an expansion on that, that actually the
Chair does have the power to appoint various committees that do not need to go through the full
Board for approval. Because in any event, the committee can't take action. It has to go before the
full Board for final action. And so the possibility exists that, responsive to your question, we
could-- and we can discuss that under Other Matters, have a separate committee appointed of
two, for example, to review litigation matters, including attorneys' fees, et cetera, and then see

what might be appropriate to report back to the Board. I don't know that that, therefore, needs to
be brought up at the Board meeting on Tuesday night.
So I would suggest that we can discuss that under Other Matters, but I don't know that we want
to bring that forward into the Board meeting on Tuesday without having had a chance for further
discussion here.
SHELLEY COOK: Good point.
DOUG TISDALE: So are there other-- let me go back through the phone now to see, are there
questions-- she made it. The record should reflect that Second Vice Chair Angie RiveraMalpiede has entered the room. And I didn't want it to sound like I was implying [INAUDIBLE].
Are there other comments, questions relative to the June Board Meeting agenda?
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't have any additions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. All right, hearing none, may I have a motion to
approve the June Board Meeting agenda as revised.
ALL: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. Is there a second? There's a second. Is there any discussion
on the motion? Hearing none, all those favor indicate by saying aye.
JEFF WALKER: Aye.
SHELLEY COOK: Aye.
PEGGY CATLIN: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. the June
Board Meeting agenda, as revised pursuant to this record, is approved.
We now turn to other matters. And Madam Second Vice Chair, just for your information, the
Secretary does have to leave at 12:30, so I'm trying to rush through some of these things, and I
apologize if it sounds like I'm speaking too fast.
Madam Executive Manager of the Board, let me recognize you first for your information, and
then we'll go to General Manager.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, I just wanted to let the Executive Committee know that I will be
sending out, today, a full sample of the survey, the General Manager Survey, that will be sent to
you next Friday, later today. It won't have backup documentation. We'll also have hard copies for
you at your desks on Tuesday, so that if you want to look through it, become familiar with it. Of
course the goals are the same as they have been.

But it was brought up in GMOC (General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee) that perhaps we could get the survey in front of everybody ahead of time so that they
could take notes, make notes, have a paper copy in front of them, so that when they actually sign
into the survey, it would be more timely for them to fill it out. So that will go out later today. If
you have any additional questions, please don't hesitate to call.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And before we go back to the item that the Treasurer
brought up, just because I want the Secretary to be here and available, let me turn to General
Manager for any other matter from General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Just two more quick comments. So on the draft FasTracks report that you'll
receive electronically, on Tuesday night, we'll have a binder for you. And this will be in the
memo as well. So we'll have a binder that has a printout of the report, the appendices. And so in
the appendices are the Board resolution, the FasTracks ballot language, the Transit Expansion
Plan that the ballot language references, and then some of the supporting charts for the financial
scenarios that we ran. So we will have-- so you don't have to worry about printing it out. But we
thought it would be valuable for you, as we walk through just the outline of it, for you to be able
to make notes on it and have it in front of you, and be able to have the document as you wish to
work on. So we will have that available for you.
And then we are also updating the Operations Committee packet with an N Line presentation
that has a summary of some of the information we discussed the other night. And I apologize to
the Executive Committee, I thought the team was going to be much more brief the other night.
And that's why we had a verbal backup plan, as I was expecting just a couple of minutes of
update, and as well on the AV. I did not expect them to go on that level of detail. But rest
assured, we discussed it the next morning. And we have corrected that situation for now and
future. OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate the observation. And yet staff should not be unduly concerned
over what might be described as a sort of overreaction on the part of some Directors relative to
the nature of the presentation. We very much appreciated having the stand-up comedian there. So
that was fine. Questions-PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, Chair, could I comment on that?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am.
PEGGY CATLIN: I appreciated the presentation, and I just had-- there was some really good
information in there that I had trouble tracking. And that's what I mentioned to the folks
afterwards. I'm taking notes, but just some of the compliance issues with the CFRs and
everything, I really wanted to capture that. And so that was my only concern, not so much that it
was an oral presentation. [INAUDIBLE] just to learn more and understand more. So I hope mine
wasn't perceived as an overreaction.

DOUG TISDALE: No, and I am ill-advised in using that word, so I apologize and withdraw
from the record the use of the word. Let me say the strong reaction of some Directors to that
process. Other questions for General Manager.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Doug, this is Director Lewis. I actually do have a very visceral response to
you using that word, because it's, one, offensive, and two, I've asked that they not provide oral
presentations and then give them things that we can respond to. And so we understand how
different people learn, and how different people receive information. I've said to the Board
multiple times, I've said to the staff multiple times that that's not how I receive information. Even
though I was taking copious notes, I didn't pick up on a lot of things that were shared. And so I
take offense to it being minimized to an overreaction and not to be seen as something that
prevents me to be able to engage and represent my constituents in the way that I would like to.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I appreciate that, and that is why, for the sake of the record, I officially
retracted, withdrew, and negated my ill-advised, as I called it, use of the word, "overreacted,"
and settled for "strong reaction." And I think in each case, certainly understood. I think also the
General Manager has explained now that with-- and particularly, with at least one of the
presenters involved, sometimes a brief discussion becomes, as is true with your Chair, a more
extended discussion that might have been intended.
SHELLEY COOK: With FRA (Federal Railroad Administration) chapter and verse quoted.
[CHUCKLING]
DOUG TISDALE: All right, that said, further questions of General Manager. Yes.
JEFF WALKER: So, on that point, I was fine with the verbal communication. In my years here,
what I've observed is that, typically, the verbal updates are on issues for which we don't have to
make a decision that day. There's not a whole lot of information that's required that won't be
coming in written form later. So I was fine with it. My problem with that process was the
response from some of the Directors was strong. And I think it was unnecessarily strong, because
we do get out our packets four days in advance now, up from three-- or five days, up from three.
So there was time to engage anybody on that agenda about, what's this about, I need more
information, what else can I do, especially if it's a verbal update.
I didn't think questioning or those types of comments in a public forum were appropriate. We
don't want to be addressed that way by staff, by the public, by anybody in a public setting. We
have plenty of time to reach out ahead of time or after the meeting and say, can you give me
more, what's this about, could you do this. It may have been done. It takes time, it takes effort, it
takes hours, it takes money to put those documents together. If it's not an urgent matter, I'm fine
with a verbal update. That's been my experience for the seven years I've been around this place.
So if the Manager or the GM wants his staff to produce written updates from now on, without
verbal updates, that's fine, too. That's his call. But this Board Director is fine with verbal updates
if I don't have to make a decision, and if there is not such a quantity of-- not evidence, but
information that I have to digest in that time or in that week. That's all.

Because I do have to leave, if I can take a couple more minutes.
DOUG TISDALE: Please, go ahead.
JEFF WALKER: I want to say to Mr. Genova, thanks for the FasTracks report, the draft, and
bringing it to us as he proposed to bring it to us. And the third point is my schedule is going to be
kind of hectic because I'm a full-time single parent from now on, for the foreseeable future. I try
to do the transit as much as I can, but Tuesday, I went down to my kid's day camp to pick her up- somebody else had taken her before. A friend of mine decided to take her, which took a load
off my shoulders. But I understand what a lot of the folks who came before us from 9 to 5 are
talking about now. I understand it full force, because I'm living it to some degree. I can't walk in
their shoes, but I can walk in that path.
So I understand. I understand. If I had an appreciation before, I have empathy for it now. So I
don't know if I'll be able to make the Committee meetings as often as I have. But I'll definitely be
here for the Board meetings, because that's when I have to. I'll still be on the phone, but I might
not be physically present. I feel bad because staff does take time to make those presentations and
I feel I should be here to support that effort. And staff also has to be here, and I feel like I should
be here. But I might not be able to because of this situation that I'm in for a while. I'll do my best
with friends. And I don't have any family in town other than my kids. But I just wanted you all to
know that that's why I might not be around as often as I want to. And that's all I got. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: That's all you had? Thank you very much. Let me go back to the phone,
because it sounded like, as the Secretary was making his comments, someone wished to interject
and make a comment. And we don't interrupt each other, but now is the appropriate time. Is there
someone who wanted to respond, or add further comment, or have another question for the
General Manager?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Wait, OK, hang on, hang on, hang on, hang on. Let me do this, because I've
got several here. So let me ask first, Madam Vice Chair, did you have something you wanted to
add now?
PEGGY CATLIN: I did not. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. All right, Director Lewis, did you have something you wanted to
add now?
[INAUDIBLE]
ANG She hung up.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, was that what she was saying?
SHELLEY COOK: It may have been.

BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't know.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, all right. OK, so is there anyone on the phone at this point? No, OK.
Then let me ask, is there any further other matter that any Director wishes to bring forward to the
Executive Committee at this time? OK, given that, we can adjourn knowing that we have our full
Board meeting with this agenda, as reviewed and slightly revised by this committee, to be
presented Tuesday night. We'll have the opportunity for the draft initial FasTracks report, and
we'll go from there.
And if there's nothing further to come before the committee, we stand adjourned. And the hour is
now 12:35 PM, Mountain Daylight Time, on Thursday, June 13. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Enjoy your Maggiano's.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, yep.
SHELLEY COOK: Did you get some?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.

