2023-01-12
Executive Committee Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: The Great. Thank you. Welcome. The Executive Committee will now come to order.
We're convened as of noon or 12:02 on Thursday, January 12, 2023. I respectfully ask everyone to
please unmute yourself unless you're recognized to speak. I'll call the roll here. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am Chair Guissinger. I am here as well. In terms of-- I don't see any other
directors. I see our legal counsel, Melanie Snyder, and our great office staff, Jillian and Tai-Shrae and
Marie. And I see Brandy Hunter are also in attendance.
I'd like to open public comments, anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to
speak and have not done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star-9 on your phone. Staff will
unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, press star-6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the committee or if any member of the public would like to submit written
comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the following email address-rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
During public comments, committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact
speakers following their comments if they raise hands that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should
begin their remarks by stating their names and each speaker will have three minutes to speak. Ms.
Parish, do we have any speakers today?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: There are no speakers, and there are no emails as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. With no participants, we'll close the public comment period. All right. Our
issue is-- our big issue today is the committee's-- I apologize, I just have to-- I have some people working
on something, I just have to send a very quick text here because they're going to the wrong place.

BOBBY DISHELL: Erik, where did you get that background? It's quite lovely. You're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think-- I made it, actually, in Photoshop, that I can send it to you if you want.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's good.
BOBBY DISHELL: That'll be great.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just need to know how to do a background. All right. Committee composition. We
have set it in our bylaws and our committee discussions at 5:00 to 7:00. I've looked through all of this and
done some initial work, and I appreciate that Erik and Bobby had a conversation to make sure we had
everything right.
It looks to me like we have seven people wanting each of our standing committees. I did not turn in a
committee assignment. I talked to Tai Shrae about it because I was just waiting to see what needed to be
filled and how I could help.
So I'm going to run through the listing I have for each of the first two committees, and if you want to check
the list we have and where we are. I think that we've been able to give people basically what they want
and end up with seven on each committee.
I know that there were a couple of things that needed to change. Troy called me and wanted to be-instead of on Finance, wanted to be on Operations and Safety. I think, Bobby, that your request was
actually Finance and Planning.
There's our GM CEO. So Debra for joining us, we were just going through the Finance and Planning and
Operations Committee. And I spoke with Ian Harwick and he would like to be on Finance and planning.
So just to speed things along, I'll tell you what I read as being people's first choice or conversations with
them.
I think Director Rosenthal and Director Williams both had Operations and Safety as a second choice, but
they both wanted to be on that. So just to be clear how I put this together and then we can talk about it.
So Finance and Planning, I have Catlin, Davidson, Guzman, Guissinger, Tisdale, Dishell, and Harwick.
Does that sound like what y'all are seeing? I see general nods. And then Operations and Safety, I have
Bouquet, Broom, Ruscha, Sloan, Rosenthal, Williams, and Whitmore.
And again, all of those were either people's first choice or I talked with them, or I think, Erik or Bobby, you
all talked about a couple. And so I think these are all really what worked out well. Seven on each
committee. And I think Director Buzek, after being Chair for a year, is going to just do Performance
Committee this year. So I think we're set.
And just as a reminder, this committee appoints the committees. The committees are both scheduled to
meet next week. We'll start off with the current Chair running those meetings and then we will have
elections that each committee elects their own chair and vice chair, and they would take over at that
point. Any comments on either of those?

All right. Performance Committee, I think only-- there were three that put it first and several that had
others and also listed it. So Buzek, Dishell, Guissinger. And then four others that listed it as a second or
something-- Catlin, Davidson, Guzman, and Sloan.
I think after our conversation, Erik, that you're thinking you're getting spread too thin and are thinking not
being on that, is that right?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, that's what I'm thinking with Audit being in there. And I wanted to take stock of
who-- whether we have good opportunities for some of our incoming folks. We have no repeats on
Finance and Planning and Operations and Safety. So yeah, I'm happy to defer to others on that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What do you mean-ERIK DAVIDSON: --where our account-LYNN GUISSINGER: --you have no repeats?
ERIK DAVIDSON: We everyone's got-- so far, Finance and Planning, Operations and Safety, everyone's
on one with the exception of Buzek? Yeah. Just wanted to double-check that. Yeah, I'm happy to step
aside and defer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I mean, you're welcome to be on it. There's six-- I mean, seven if all of us are on it.
As I may have mentioned to some of you, the Performance Committee, I think we'll need to work with
whoever the chair is and vice chair and figure it out.
But I would like to see us have that committee organize some of the information that went to the
committee and get it all to the whole Board this year in a presentation so that everybody's on the same
page in terms of the information. So Buzek, Dishell, Guissinger, Catlin, Guzman, and Sloan. Marjorie and
Peggy, you're both good being on there?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm fine being on there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Marjorie? Are you there? She may had to step away. So I would say that's six
people, we would go with that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Can we do six or do we need an odd number?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's what I was just wondering.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: So Chair, per the bylaws, it's five or seven.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh. OK. Well, maybe I'll step aside on that and hope to be involved with that, but I
know that-ERIK DAVIDSON: Lynn, I can be on that if you'd like. You said that we can keep the people on there. I
agree with you. My preference is that a lot of the key issues would come to the Board as a whole and
there would be briefings and we'd actually discuss some of the larger topics there. But if you'd like to be
involved and-- I can be on the committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Well--

PEGGY CATLIN: I think-- you should be involved, Lynn, as Chair. That's-- I think that's important.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So we'll put the seven of us. Buzek, Dishell, Guissinger, Davidson, Catlin, Guzman,
and Sloan. And it'll be the chance to talk and work with Debra to tweak the process that might not need
tweaking if that's what's decided.
BOBBY DISHELL: I think-- I think, just quickly, just food for thought for us, is that we can bolster those
committee reports. I think right now it's informal. I know Erik tried to make it more formal. I definitely did
with the ZEB. But I think there may be an opportunity here in January or February to work together.
And Erik, happy to collaborate with you on a template so that we know that it's not just, say, a report from
the Chair that's an auditory, here's what happened because there was such variation and it's-- the point is
that we're all able to understand what happened in the committee meeting, and I don't know that the way
that committee reports are currently reported out that that consistently gets done.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's a good suggestion.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I agree with that, Bobby. I'd be happy to put out a template. There's something I follow
and it's probably not great, I could use some other eyes on it. But yeah, I think having the chair of the
committee-- we talked about that at the retreat last year, make sure to really highlight the key issues and
brief on things that really need to be understood by the full Board would be excellent.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Great. TABOR Ad Hoc Committee, if we're moving on. I think that Erik, you
spoke with Bob and he's happy to stay on there, and I know that JoyAnn Ruscha is interested. So I think
we can make those appointments and have that committee filled.
Zero Emission-- and I guess maybe we have to renew those committees, is that right, Tai-Shrae?
Melanie's nodding. OK. Is that something we do today, Melanie? Or does it not matter? Is it just a chair
appointment or what's the process there?
MELANIE SNYDER: It's a chair appointment, Madam Chair, but I think it's helpful to have that discussion
today since you're talking about it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We got the TABOR Ad Hoc Committee and the Zero Emission Vehicles
Committee. Zero emission vehicles would be the same for people, I think. Julie and Bobby, Kate, and me.
My inclination is to move those both forward with those people. Any other input on that?
BOBBY DISHELL: I may be mistaken, but I thought there was one of the new Board members who noted
in their email that they wouldn't-- that they'd want to be involved with that, which I don't-- I think Lynn and- the reality is, it's easy. We're going to have another roundtable in early February. And realistically, we're
probably wrapped up on that committee end the February or end of March.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Because at that point, we'll pass recommended action and then whatever comes from
that recommended action would come through one of our standing committees.
PEGGY CATLIN: Was it Ian Harwick? Was it Ian that wanted to be on there? I can't remember, but-BOBBY DISHELL: And pull their emails.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm looking at the little spreadsheet that the office put together for us.
BOBBY DISHELL: It was Troy.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh.
BOBBY DISHELL: Not one of the newbies.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I didn't ask Troy. I'm seeing now that-- he put in it as an alternate. I've talked
to him and he didn't express it, but I think we could make that work. I can-- a note to talk to Troy on that if
we want to add him. I think you're right, we're going to be winding up pretty soon.
PEGGY CATLIN: It looks like Tai-Shrae she has her hand up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ah. Tai-Shrae?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Hi, everyone. I just wanted to remind you that the Zero Emission policy that was
brought forward in November was tabled to January. So I'm not sure if that's something you still want to
bring forward in January or maybe table it again after you had the roundtable discussions and you can
really finalize what you want to bring forward for the policy.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Bobby, it makes sense to me to do it in February after we've had our-BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right. Thanks, Tai-Shrae, you for pointing that out. I guess we do that in the
meeting-- in the Board meeting, right? OK. Great.
Outside committees and liaison appointments. DRCOG, a lot of interest, that was good. The six I have
that we're interested-- and I'll just say that JoyAnn Ruscha called me and said she shouldn't have been on
DRCOG, she should have been on the Adams County Economic Development one, so I moved her over
there.
But we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 people that put it as first were Bob Broom, Buzek, Rosenthal, Guzman,
Tisdale, and Williams. And so I don't have a strong way-- let's see. Is that right? I think that's right-- of
picking the representatives and the alternates. Any input on that?
BOBBY DISHELL: No, and if I remember correctly from when I was on it, it was a quick meeting with Bill
Van Meter and it was primarily driven by staff, which I think, for the TIP process, which is what's really
discussed, it's probably appropriate. I don't know, who's giving those updates now.
But I don't know that it matters. I think it's probably more looking at people's capacity and giving the
alternates to someone who may have less capacity than more.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So the current ones now are Buzek-- or the current ones last year, Buzek, Cook,
Williams were primary, and Guissinger, Tisdale, and Whitmore were alternates. Tisdale requested it
again-- or maybe even not to be an alternate. Rosenthal, Guzman, and Broom, and then Buzek and
Williams. So I guess I don't have a strong way of determining those.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Lynn, I have a question and something to discuss. We traditionally point-- I'll point
someone just to the RTC. But since we are doing quite a bit more outreach with leadership in the Metro
area, possibly we could appoint someone who would be interested in going to the Board meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, that's a good idea. We haven't had that, huh? When do they meet, Marjorie?
Is it night? Day?
MARJORIE SLOAN: It's at night.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Well, we could talk to some of these people and see if someone would be
interested, I guess, would be the best way to do that. Any other ideas?
ERIK DAVIDSON: We could work backwards through some of the other appointments and see where
we're left from a capacity and who signed up for what standpoint because I think some of the others have
less interest.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. OK. Let's skip that one for now. We've got six names we can finalize that.
Now I'm not-- this one-- the next one is Metro Mayors. And I think Marjorie Sloan is our rep right now. And
Ian Harwick also put it as a major interest.
I guess my inclination would be, if this sounds good, would be that Marjorie stays as our rep, having been
chair of that committee, and that Ian could be our alternate. Does that make sense, Marjorie? I mean,
does it need to be somebody who's been involved with the group or anything like that? I guess that would
only be Tisdale is the other one.
MARJORIE SLOAN: No, I think it would be great to get a fresh person in that pipeline.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. All right. So does everybody think that's OK? Marjorie is the rep and Ian is
the alternate. E-470. E-470, I think it was Peggy, Catlin, and Bob Broom. Broom put it his second, he had
DRCOG first. We could give-PEGGY CATLIN: Troy indicated he'd be an alternate. I saw-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, OK. You're right. OK. It's just one person in one alternate, right?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, we can put Bob on DRCOG, that was his first. And the E-470 Board was
second.
PEGGY CATLIN: So Lynn, if I might, the way-- E-470 has three other committees, and-- or
subcommittees kind of like we do. And what the City of Lone Tree does, because they're also a nonvoting
member of the E-470 Board, they have a rep and an alternate, and the alternate actually goes to
committee meetings-- to one of the committee meetings and the rep goes to the other. So it's kind of a
hybrid. So that's a way to get-- to spread it out a little bit.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So would it make sense to have all three of you or--

PEGGY CATLIN: No. I think E-470 typically likes a representative and an alternate, but just because
you're an alternate, it doesn't mean it's only for Board meetings. It could be, in fact, for committee
meetings if that alternate wants to participate.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I have Troy down to talk to him. He put an alternate again on the ZEB. So
could-- let's see. And he's also the alternate for the ACED, the Adams County Economic Development.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I know Bob had been on it before, and I think he decided not to be on it because
he had a conflict for the meeting times. But if he has expressed interest, I think he would be good. And in
fact, both Troy and Bob are within the District of E-470.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mm-hmm.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I'm not, but I had the experience in previous Board membership.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And you were very interested when we talked yesterday, right?
PEGGY CATLIN: I still am very interested, yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Well, again, I think maybe we make Bob on DRCOG, and then I can-- I'm
going to talk to Troy anyhow. I can talk to Bob and Troy and see where the interest lies, if we-- does that
work? Pick an alternate-PEGGY CATLIN: --for me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Does that work, Tai-Shrae, if we don't have each and every one-- well we're only-- I
think our recommended action is only for our main committees, right, Melanie? So we can fine-tune some
of these later. All right, E-470, talk to Troy. All right. So that's Peggy and either Troy or Bob Broom, and
we'll work that out later.
Northwest Parkway Board, looks like you, Director Davidson, are the only one wanting to do that, so it's
yours.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, I'll stick with that one. I think we need an alternate, right? Which was Vince, and
I would recommend that I'll make those meetings. So I don't think we need to worry about it. He voluntold
me for last year, so I'll voluntell him that he could be alternate on that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: He's the alternate? OK. All right, let me just get that down here. All right. Jefferson
County Parkway Public Highway Authority, I think, Peggy, did you tell me that doesn't exist or it's part of
something else? Am I making that up? Somebody told me that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Marjorie, you might know. I thought because of the Broomfield issue that it pretty much
is-- I don't know if it still exists, but I don't think they meet.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I was, one year ago, representative and I never had a meeting. But I just looked up
their schedule and they have a meeting scheduled for January 19 at 3 o'clock, and the Broomfield
withdrawal is part of the agenda. So it might be an interesting-LYNN GUISSINGER: You need someone.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah. And I would say-- voluntold, I like that. I think Ian is the logical person. They're
meeting in Arvada, at Arvada City Hall at 3 o'clock. And then-LYNN GUISSINGER: The question there may be his work schedule, but we can certainly ask him. Is it-so it's in-person?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, let me write some notes here. So what's the issue? Broomfield is withdrawing
from that?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Broomfield City Council has voted to withdraw, and they were a third of the
contributors.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, is that right?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So they're definitely struggling. It would be interesting to know what their planning
thoughts are.
LYNN GUISSINGER: If Ian can't do it, is there anyone here interested in attending that meeting?
PEGGY CATLIN: Marjorie, is Bill Ray still involved in that?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. I just saw his name. Yes, he is. I have a conflict that day, January 19. So I
would not be a good volunteer.
PEGGY CATLIN: My thoughts about that is that it's an extension of Northwest Parkway, basically.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I mean, that was that missing link.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are you saying Erik should go?
PEGGY CATLIN: I was suggesting that Erik might-ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So you're voluntelling Erik?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, right? Can you give me the time again on the 19th?
LYNN GUISSINGER: 3:00 PM?
MARJORIE SLOAN: It's 3 o'clock in Arvada at City Hall on the 19th.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have a conflict, but I can try to make that work.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Did you want me to ask Ian first?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, if you wouldn't mind, and I can touch base with him then. I'll stay close to that. I'll
obviously stay close to that. I'll chat with Ian about it, but yeah, if he's available, let's do that, and if not, I'll
see if I can clear the conflict.
PEGGY CATLIN: Lynn, I'm available then. I mean, not to necessarily be an appointee to that, but to be an
observer, I'd be happy to step in.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. That's great. I've got that down.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, one note about those is they have made it a practice to have quite a few
executive sessions, and most of the hard decision-making happens in executive session. So it might be a
brief meeting for an RTD representative.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And that makes sense for us to be there? Hard to say?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, let me look over the agenda and the different minutes that they have. And I
can talk to Erik and Ian and maybe Peggy about this after I've checked it out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That'd be great, thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Materials public executive session, I'm submitting the core request. Kidding. That was
a joke.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We're laughing. OK. On to CDOT-- no. Adams County Economic Development.
JoyAnn requested that. Troy put it down as an alternate. So I think we have the right people in the right
place. CDOT liaison. Let's see, who is that person that put this up? And I think it's JoyAnn.
BOBBY DISHELL: I think it's JoyAnn, but her email noted one of the two. So I would just check her
capacity.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Didn't Kate mention it as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Kate put it down as a fourth choice. Yeah, we could put Kate in there.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, in the past it has only been to work with-- and John McKay can probably correct
me, but the primary purpose is to arrange for the joint dinner with the Commission and the Board. It's not
a heavy lift. And I was at this a couple of years ago prior to COVID, and I went to the meetings and I
know-- Karen Stewart was like, what are you doing here?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, really?
[LAUGHTER]
OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Like I said, it's not a heavy lift. Kate has relationships over there, so that might be good.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. I'll put Kate in there and JoyAnn as a backup. JEFFTAG That's for you,
Jefferson County gang. Let's see. We have a Catlin putting at first. And second, is it Harwick and Sloan, I

think? And so do you have-- do we have one person in an alternate? Yeah, we have one person and an
alternate.
PEGGY CATLIN: And actually, we have-- typically had more than one person attend.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: There are-- because it's all of the communities in Jefferson County. There are different
areas of interest. We met yesterday. But at times it was Marjorie and Shelley and myself, all three of us
would be there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And is there a voting person or do we just say that-PEGGY CATLIN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I would say Catlin, Marjorie, Sloan, and Harwick are all appointed to that. Does
that sound good?
PEGGY CATLIN: It sounds good. I would point out that at one point, Bobby's district had a little sliver of
Jefferson County. I don't know if it still does after redistricting.
BOBBY DISHELL: It's still there. It's about 8-- it's about a 2-by-8 block corner-PEGGY CATLIN: That's like my Arapahoe County.
LYNN GUISSINGER: As Judy Lubow, used to say she represents a few little groundhogs in Adams
County. So I guess that's what you have, too. OK, well it sounds like anybody can attend, right?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, we'll put them on, and Bobby, it sounds like if you want to attend for 8-by10 group, you can do that. Santa Fe PEL, what is that?
BOBBY DISHELL: So I've been on that committee the past two years and I've never received an invite for
a meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Maybe a communication problem or it may be that nothing is happening. My
understanding is that it was part of the Performance and Environmental-- PEL, Performance,
Environmental-- forgot what L stands for.
PEGGY CATLIN: Planning and Environmental Linkages. And it's a CDOT planning process. So Planning
and Environment Linkages. And I think what they were looking at was possibly converting the HOV lanes
to HOT lanes at one point, at least as my-BOBBY DISHELL: So there's some construction along Santa Fe. The short version is there's various
areas where it's three lanes and it's two lanes, it's four lanes, then it's three lanes. They're looking at that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.

BOBBY DISHELL: And different ways to [INAUDIBLE]. You're welcome-- I don't-- but you're welcome to
put me and Director Tisdale on there because we're the only two with Santa Fe-LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Santa Fe cut into [INAUDIBLE]. Maybe I'll ask our CDOT liaison to confirm that that's
still in-LYNN GUISSINGER: [INAUDIBLE]
BOBBY DISHELL: --a refresh CDOT projects where we should have input.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Tisdale was the only one at least that made it to the thing and he put it down as a
first choice, so maybe I'll put you as alternate, Bobby, does that work? Or maybe you're both-- two
people. So it's both of you, I take it back. Both of you going to no meetings.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think it's more of a stakeholder type of effort on behalf of CDOT, and that's what they
wanted somebody to represent RTD and their stakeholder group.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: As part of their Planning and Environmental Linkages process. And I know Doug is
interested in the very south end of it because of the Southwest Rail Extension possibilities, which go from
Mineral down into Highlands Ranch along Santa Fe.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Recognizing whether or not engineers or-- Debra or Melanie, is staff involved in that
effort? And if not, does it make more sense for us to appoint someone on SLT to go to that given that we
have a limited technical-- Doug and I have a limited technical knowledge on those items?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, I think that's something that Chair can maybe discuss with Debra to see what
makes the most sense there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I have a note to talk about the Santa Fe PEL. Yeah, Marjorie, you have a
question?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I do. And this is just a comment, and Bobby brought it up. That we are not-- there is
no procedure to let the liaisons know about meetings that are happening. And when I looked at the
JPPHA, I noticed they did have a meeting December 21, 2022, and I didn't know anything about that.
There are frequently issues with Metro Mayors that Doug and I experienced in terms of not hearing about
meetings and hearing about meetings and then learning later that it was mayors only. So if we could have
a good procedure perhaps with our lobbyists about notifying and keeping the appointed RTD Directors in
the loop about the meetings of these outside groups, it would be really helpful.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think that's a really good point. I know that was happening with-- and so
that may be a combination of us-- I can talk with our team in the Board Office, and also, it may be the
lobbyists or Michael Davies, some of those to make sure our representatives are getting the information
they need. Does that sound good?

PEGGY CATLIN: That sounds great. And in fact, Jennifer Webster from Catalyst was really interested in
where those assignments were. And I sent her last year's matrix of who was on what committee-- or list of
who was on what committee to get started. She's interested in facilitating that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I just looked, Lynn. CDOT reports that the Santa Fe PEL study is complete. It was
completed in 2022, which means that-- I guess that bring us two years' worth of meetings because no one
told us.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So you and Tisdale don't need to be on that? All right, we're scratching off the
Santa Fe PEL.
BOBBY DISHELL: That RTD provided technical support. So that means-- for whatever that's worth.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I don't need to discuss that with Debra. I'll scratch that out. All right. APTA
Board appointee, 2023 appointee board chair. The RTD agency membership size allows for a seat on the
APTA Board. The chair of the board assumes this position after the election of a new Executive
Committee. Should the chair decline this position, the chair would appoint an Executive member-- an
Executive Committee member to the APTA Board.
Is that what-- Melanie, is that what Doug was doing? Was he appointed in place of the chair or did Vince
do this? Do you know?
MELANIE SNYDER: My understanding is that was a different role, but Debra-DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I can speak, this is Debra Johnson.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That'd be great. Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, if I may, this is Debra Johnson, can you hear me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, please, that'd be great.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So basically, Doug Tisdale is on the Executive Committee. He serves as the Chair of
the Transit Board Administrators Committee. And by nature of that position, he is already on the
Executive Committee. I, as a member of APTA, sit on the Board as well, so that position has already
spoken for, recognizing that the Board just commenced its new membership at the October APTA
Transform Committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So-- make sure I understand you. When it says that, should the chair decline, the
chair will appoint an Executive Committee member to the APTA Board. Are you saying there's not a seat
for the chair? Because-DEBRA JOHNSON: What I'm saying is that Doug Tisdale is currently on that committee, so I have asked
you to confer with him because by nature of his role as being the Chair of the TBM, he is on the Executive
Committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It says the chair will appoint an Executive Committee member to the APTA Board. I
assume we can appoint-- I mean, maybe we don't need to appoint anyone. I'll follow up with both of you, I
think, Melanie and Debra.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, just for clarification, Doug is already sitting on the Executive Committee, and if
he were to be removed, I don't believe he could still occupy the seat of Chair of the TDM.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't want to remove him.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. So that seat is already spoken for. That's what I was trying to clarify.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Gotcha. I wasn't clear if Doug was separate because of his TBM position, but that's
fine. Doug will be-DEBRA JOHNSON: --go hand-in-hand because he's the leader of a committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That will be appointed. That's great.
PEGGY CATLIN: Although technically, it says we'll-- does what you're reading say that the chair will
appoint somebody from this Executive Committee to serve on the APTA Board?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That does say that. I'm not sure what that's from.
PEGGY CATLIN: And so it seems to me that we would need to change that since Doug is not on the
Executive Committee. On this Executive Committee. We have an Executive Committee of APTA and we
have an RTD Executive Committee. So there needs to be some clarification about what we're talking
about.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Do you know anything about that, Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: I'm not familiar with the APTA requirements, but what I can say, Madam Chair, is
these appointments are all within your authority, so you can make that change as needed. You can get
that clarification.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We'll make that change and I'll work to make sure it's cleared with Melanie and all,
and Doug will remain on that committee. Sound good? OK. All right. I think-- except for DRCOG where we
had six people wanting it and-- let me see if we have-- it's all kind of what people are wanting. I know
Ruscha is not wanting it now.
But Bob Broom, Vince Buzek, Paul Rosenthal, Mike Guzman, Doug Tisdale, and Kate Williams. And like I
said, the current ones were I think Williams and Buzek that had been-- and Cook, he's gone off. Anybody
have any input on that?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, I would.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, Marjorie? I'll be right back to you, Erik.

MARJORIE SLOAN: OK, I would just like to clarify that if we sent somebody to the RTD or the DRCOG
Board meetings, they would not be voting members of the Board. And would probably and would be
sitting toward the rear, not around the table. But they could certainly make comments about things that
are on the agenda. And perhaps, if we can have somebody called a board liaison reviewing the DRCOG
agendas to see when transit has an important issue and make comment to the entire Board, might be one
way to do it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, having kind of a lead person on this is that what you're suggesting?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Right, somebody monitoring what the DRCOG Board has on its agenda and
attending, if appropriate.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. And thank you for your
suggestion, Director Sloan. For everybody's edification, we do attend the DRCOG Board meeting. So if
that was the desired, we could have staff liaise with the appropriate Board member. But just wanted to
ensure that there was an understanding that we do attend the DRCOG Board meetings as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And that's-- is that Brian Welch and you?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, yes. I'm the representative. And he's my alternate. So generally there is
representation there in relationship to our roles at the organization.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, so if we add another one, I mean, it sounds like we can just add somebody to
go to it and not have that approved by DRCOG or anything? Is that the situation? Or do we have set
seats?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, the meeting is open to the public. And being representatives on the Regional
Transportation Committee, we attend because RTD has an integral role. So yes, I mean, any meeting is
open to the public. So I don't see that as being problematic.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All righty. Any-- Erik, did you have something to add there?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, less on the who would be alternate who would be primary. But I was just going
to point out that with JoyAnn actually being in TD, that takes it to seven. Ian Harwick, I was just going to
point out, is one of the ones that's sitting on two of the internal RTD committee appointments, Finance
and planning, and performance. And I'm just-- I don't think that's true of the others. Oh, that's right,
Guzman is too.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I was just looking at the six people who put it down as first. Guzman is on two
committees? So maybe he's an alternate. I think-- I can talk to people and put this together a little better if
that makes sense. If somebody is wanting it really badly versus somebody else who's happy to be an
alternate and name somebody if we want somebody to go attend the Board meetings as well.
So is the suggestion, Marjorie, that we have the three primaries that attend the RTC and someone else
that attends the Board's meetings? Is that your thought?

MARJORIE SLOAN: I think if people are interested in connecting with DRCOG, that might be a good way
to broaden the participation of those folks who are interested.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, all right. Well, are y'all OK if I take that advice, which is good, and just talk to
people and kind of see what committees they end up on, and what their level of interest is, and put that
together? In other words, if some of them are happy being alternates and others are really, really wanting
it? Sound good?
PEGGY CATLIN: Sounds good.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, all right. Is that all of our committees? There is one other-- and this is a bigger
conversation. But we are the Government Relations Committee. And I would like to talk about how we
make this Executive Committee more effective in several ways. And that's one of them, and expand that
to the rest of the Board. I'm hearing a lot of people who would like to get more involved.
I'd like to do some sort of, potentially, a whiteboard session with our lobbyists, and Ms. Johnson, Michael
Davis, and whoever else, Melanie to talk about ideas for that. Right now, what we've had this year is that
there are phone calls on Tuesday mornings with-- it's usually Debra and Michael and all of our lobbyists
at different points, and Troy and me.
I know Marjorie has expressed some interest. It didn't get into this because it was a little bit of an aside. I
know Troy is still interested. We could put it back out for people to say, I think a lot of people would
probably be interested in-- or we could just talk about picking-- what do you think? Should we put it back
out as something people can express interest in or-- it's generally two people.
And I may keep some of those for the first month or so because we're in the legislative session. And I'd
like to-- as I say, I have thoughts on bringing our lobbyists back into the Board. So I just want to stay in
that communication for a bit. Any particular thoughts?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think it's definitely fair to put it out at some point. I just would say I think Troy and
brings a lot of value, given his role in his private sector life, or I should say his professional job. So I'm-- I
mean, this may not be the year to put it out. I mean, I think it could be good. But I'm very comfortable
having Troy there for the benefit of the agency.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, and my inclination is to appoint Marjorie. She has the same kind of
background, and experience, and relationships. I hate giving it up, good information. So I may-- like I say,
I may keep it for the next month or so. And Troy misses a fair amount because of his job. So I tell Troy, if
he's going to miss it, let me know.
I do like being in-- so I guess-- I mean, maybe it is-- this is the Government Relations Committee. We can
just appoint it. We could-- what do you think? Should we go back out? Debra, did you have something to
add?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, I don't. I was just listening to the discussion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just coming back on.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I was driving before.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I was driving before.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, OK. Well, what do you think? Should we put it back out or should we just make
an Executive Committee decision?
BOBBY DISHELL: All right, what are we putting back out?
LYNN GUISSINGER: People's interest in those phone calls on Tuesday morning. And I think the problem
with Troy is he's not on this committee. And this is the Government Relations Committee. But he does
have the relationships in the capital and all of that. And I know that Marjorie, you're interested, right?
Yeah.
I guess if y'all are OK with it, I would probably appoint those two for this year. And maybe we get it on to-we could make this committee a more effective Government Relations Committee and do it a different
way next year. Does that sound?
PEGGY CATLIN: I support that.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, it sounds fine with me too. And Lynn, whenever you want to participate, either
Troy and I-LYNN GUISSINGER: Elbow you out of the way?
MARJORIE SLOAN: We'll back out. So there are only two. And I'm pretty sure that would work out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, yeah. All right.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great suggestion from the people who participate. A quick, hey, what happened during
the meeting, circulate it to the exec committee, or full Board, whatever is appropriate. That may help as
well.
PEGGY CATLIN: But the other thing is that this meeting is open to all other directors. And if need be, if
Troy were available, he could join in just to give a brief update. Yeah, I think that's good. Michael gives his
updates. I want to bring the lobbyists back at least some of the time. I think we get a more complete
picture of, especially during the legislative session, of conversations and things that are going on.
I think Michael is doing a great job. I'm not questioning that. But I just think it's a little change that would
probably be to the Board itself. That's a conversation to have later. All righty, we've got some-- let's see,
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: One other thing is that JoyAnn is down at the capital quite a bit too with her regular job.
And so that she provides another set of ears and relationships that we could probably capitalize on.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure, these calls, I think, are more just to directors. But she has quick knowledge.
So that's a good point. That's a good point. All right, if we're ready for the recommended action, any other
conversation around the committee members?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Lynn, I just wanted to point out-- thanks for letting me comment. I know JoyAnn had
expressed some real interest in Finance, even though it wasn't on the chart. And I think where we ended
up here, and just for the sake of the record and clarity, we have no duplicates between Finance and
Planning and Operations and Safety. We have seven members on one, seven different numbers on the
other.
But I know she had expressed a lot of interest in being more involved. I'd be happy to yield to her on
Performance committee, just given the obligations here. Would you mind if I just reach out to her before
we take the vote here?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure or we can amend the vote.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We could amend it. That's true. That's true, yeah, we could amend it before we go
forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Phrase it a different way. So we have one recommended action on the agenda this
afternoon. That's the 2023 committee appointments. It's for the Board of Directors to appoint and ratify the
2023 standing committee appointments. As outlined in the amended bylaws from December 7, 2021, the
full Board must ratify the standing committee appointments.
The Board Office staff will correct the Board report with the assignments. But to recap, the following
Directors have been appointed to the following standing committees. Finance and planning, there are
seven members, Catlin, Davidson, Guissinger, Guzman, Tisdale, Dishell, and Harwick. Operations and
safety, also seven members, Bouquet, Broom, Ruscha, Sloan, Rosenthal, Whitmore, and Williams.
Performance committee, Buzek, Dishell, Guissinger, Catlin, Guzman, Sloan, and Davidson. Shall we
leave it that way for now?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And what you can talk to JoyAnn if you want. Do we have a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Who was my second? Was that Erik as the-- Erik is the movement and Bobby is the
second? OK. Any discussion on the motion? Are there any no votes? OK, the motion passes with five yes
votes, no vote-- no no votes and zero abstentions. Thank you.
Other matters, I've got a couple to add to this. And I want to open it up to whatever else you want to talk
about. I'd like to talk about-- after we talked about some of the retreat things here, that I'd also like to talk
about what we have in mind. Or maybe we do some polling with the Board on in-person versus Zoom
meetings, kind of what we're thinking.
Before we talk about the retreat, the January 26 Executive Committee meeting is scheduled at noon. And
that day is also the WTS luncheon where Angie Rivera-Malpiede will be presented as Woman of the
Year. So I know that some of us would like to attend. I think the office sent out a question to see if
anybody wanted to attend. Peggy's mentioned it. I'd like to go. So can we move that meeting-- I know a
couple of people have expressed some interest in moving the meeting, or at least, I know one was
moving the Executive Committee meeting from noon.

We could potentially do it earlier that morning. Tai-Shrae is there-- I guess might depend on Debra's
calendar, too. But if we wanted to move it earlier that morning, could we check calendars and see if that
works?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I can say, just so you're aware, there's a NATO meeting that
morning as well. And I know some individuals attend that. So that meeting is from 7:30 to 9:00. But
anything thereafter, I'm amenable. I can alter my schedule. But just wanted to apprise you of the NATO
meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Does anyone know where that WTS luncheon is?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, the WTS luncheon is at the Ritz Carlton, located at 1881 Curtis Street in
downtown Denver.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So any interest in meeting in person for that meeting before the luncheon? Not
really?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I'd be happy to. It's a cheat for me because I work about half a block away from
Lake Street.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I know that Peggy and I are going to be there. We could at least do partially in
person if we can't-- so Marjorie and Erik, want to check your schedules and see if maybe we could meet-I don't know what time that luncheon starts. If it's-PEGGY CATLIN: It's at 11:30.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So if we met at 10 downtown?
PEGGY CATLIN: Or a hybrid meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, we could just do a hybrid. I might well come downtown and to the extent we
can. That would be nice.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I will always have a conflict. The last Thursday of the month at noon.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that when we meet? The last Thursday-- it's the Thursday before that. Oh, I
guess it varies, huh?
BOBBY DISHELL: I think this is the only month where it's an issue. But we have a-- my day job has an
internal call and lunch I have to be at.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, well that's a good reason for us to move that meeting too, then. All right, we'll
check calendars. But look at 10:00 downtown or hybrid. We'll just make it if you can't come, do it by Zoom
on the 26th.
Board retreat. I'd like to talk about what the retreat would look like, what we want to address. I think some
of the ideas are governance, communication, policy, becoming a stronger voice in regional issues. I think
there is some value in considering a study session before the retreat to kind of tee up what we want to
discuss and direct the consultants that are helping the facilitators.

I guess my inclination this is that we had talked about late March or April. Maybe what we could do, TaiShrae, is send out a Doodle poll for Saturdays in the last half of March or the first half of April, or kind of
depends on how long it takes us to get an RFP out. I think our RFP, we did it last year.
So I think it's in pretty good shape. I guess if there's specifics about the discussion, then we would need
to change that. But I think we're going to want to get it out before we finalize what we're talking about
anyhow. And start to get responses on that.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yeah, I have-ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm not-- go ahead, Marjorie.
MARJORIE SLOAN: OK, I just have one question about the retreat. How does that coordinate with the
orientation for the new Board members? When will that be completed? Tai-Shrae, do you have an answer
to that?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Sure, I can speak. And the General Manager can chime in too if I misspeak. So we
are having an orientation on-- for this Friday for the new Board members to meet with the senior
leadership team. And then as part of my ENO MAX project, which was revamping the new Board member
orientation, I did want to schedule a district tour at some point in the year. I'm not sure if that will happen
first quarter. But that is on my to do list.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And if I may further elaborate. So to the question that was posed by Director Sloan,
yes, there is an orientation session being held tomorrow. But recognizing that's just an orientation. And
onboarding takes an extended period of time, there will be subsequent sessions where we'll be able to
hone in on various aspects, such as the budget, media training, service planning, and other topics of
which we will discuss tomorrow to discern where there is an interest in understanding more about the
policy roles as it relates to the Regional Transportation District. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, is it-- you said you've revamped it. We got a lot of information when we all
came on, I think. And I can see that trimming that down would make some sense. But a lot of it was still
helpful. Is it-- it sounds like you're still planning a pretty full onboarding process. Is that-- is it different?
What's the goal of changing it?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I can speak to that from a leadership perspective, what we're trying to ensure is
that the new Board members understand the various policy matters in which they have to offer guidance.
So specifically, educating and informing them relative to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, specifically Title VI
and Title VII, more specifically, as we look at the American with Disabilities Act of 1990.
Then specifically, talking about their role as related to the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan that's
written in statute, the elements of the Title VI program that comes forward for the Board to review and
approve on a triennial basis. That includes the Language Assistance Plan. We're going to share
information relative to the strategic plan. And in turn, our roles as being recipients of federal dollars and
how there has to be compliance. So there is an understanding about various aspects of what you all do
from a policy vantage point that are statutory in nature.
And then basically, providing more specific information in regard to the Federal Transit Administration's
oversight, the Federal Railroad Administration's oversight. And how, under the FTA, there is the
requirement to have a state safety oversight agency in which the Colorado PUC is designated as that
entity. So that's a sampling in reference to the information that we're providing.

And then more specifically, as well, we're talking about the committees and what executive within the
leadership team supports that effort. So they have an understanding of those processes and an
introduction of the various departments in the auspices of which members of the leadership team
oversee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And is there a financial-DEBRA JOHNSON: Financially, what I was-- that's what I was referencing. So there will be finance quite
naturally in the strat plan because that's the foundation upon which we make decisions. When I was
talking about additional information, there will be a subsequent, in-depth briefing provided by Doug
MacLeod, as well as for service planning since those things come forward to the Board on a recurring
basis for action.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, Marjorie, you had a question?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Well, just a comment. The reason I raised it was I thought it would be relevant to the
retreat to know how much background the new folks had. But it sounds like this will be ongoing through
the spring. So that the retreat cannot be dependent on the completion of orientation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Point of clarification, if I may. This is taking place tomorrow, what I was alluding to.
Should further information be warranted by the newly elected Board members, we're willing to do a
deeper dive. That's what I intended. So I'm sorry if I caused confusion by my comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So is tomorrow kind of an introduction to the SLT, and to what you're intending to
present, and then get their feedback on what else should be-- they want to hear? Is that kind of what
you're saying.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, so it's a policy introduction in relationship to the roles that they have and what
comes before them on a recurring basis. They've already received information relative to the delegation of
authority that the Board modified just a couple of months ago. General Councilor Snyder provided that to
them last week.
In relationship, it's broader than introducing them to the leadership team. It's talking about the various
components of which this Board needs to act that are recurring in nature. And so quite naturally, it's the
budget. It's the nexus to the strategic plan. It's the Title VI components, as I've outlined. It's their policy.
And so those critical elements, we're trying to ensure they have an understanding of what their roles will
be and why this Board has auspices over those certain elements.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. Is that at 3:00 tomorrow?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, it's at 8:30 in the morning.
LYNN GUISSINGER: If someone can send me the link, I might attend at least part of it. So they see the
Board there, too.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Yeah, Tai-Shrae is coordinating that. So I'll yield the floor to her to address that. I
think that was the intent to ensure that everybody was aware Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Yeah, Tai-Shrae, if you could just send me a link in the morning. I may try to
come on for at least part of it. All righty.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Just a quick question, that will be recorded for-- I don't know the attendance looks like
from our new members. But they'll be recorded?
DEBRA JOHNSON: It is a public meeting, sir.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: It'll be recorded via Zoom.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Peggy.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just-- with regard to timing of the retreat, in years past, we had made sure that we had
the retreat prior to the first submission of the budget for the following year. And I know if we back it up,
and we could probably talk to Doug about this tomorrow, Erik. But if we back it in, that I think if it's
anything after April, that crowds their timing a little bit. Although we broadened the retreat topics to be
much more strategic and not budget focused. It had been budget focused in the past.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that's a good point. I think if we can get the RFP out. And maybe if you could
send that to all of the Executive Committee members, please, Tai-Shrae and team, we can take a quick
look at that and hopefully talk to Don or whoever is managing that and get that out quickly, by next week
sometime, hopefully. And then I don't know how long we have to keep that open, three or four weeks.
Does that sound right, Melanie, or others?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would say, first, we have to discern what it is. If we're just doing a request for
qualifications, it may not be a request for proposal, contingent upon what you all decide that you want. So
I just wanted to ensure that we had an understanding of the solicitation method in which we utilize.
And then we will confer with contracts and procurement regarding a timeline, recognizing we should start
with the end date in which you guys identify and then back it out from there in reference to when we can
basically garner interest. Because now, we do have bench contracts as well that may be able to be
utilized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We have existing contracts? Is that what-DEBRA JOHNSON: I said, yes, we have bench contracts. And so basically, that could be a shorter time
frame. But it's contingent upon what you're seeking and if our bench contracts align with the intended
scope that you collectively, as an Executive Committee, decide upon.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And it's one of the bench contracts with our facilitator from last year?
DEBRA JOHNSON: That entity did not submit a proposal.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I don't know what the bench contracts are. They're standing-DEBRA JOHNSON: So yes, they're standing in different areas. And so I'm saying contingent upon what
you want, there could be one that fits the scope. But not knowing that-- I'm speaking from a place of not
knowing exactly what it is that you all want. If you're just looking for facilitation, that may be something
else. But we could further explore that.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. I'm going back to my CDOT days would this be analogous to non-project
specific contracts that you have a contract in place under which you can write a scope of work or scope of
services and issue--

DEBRA JOHNSON: All contracts, we have some for research and development. We have others for
training and development. And there were certain aspects that were included in that scope. And I'm
saying contingent upon what you all may want, those are just two examples I have off the top of my head.
But I'm saying contingent upon what you are seeking, there could be a contract that addresses your
needs. I just don't know what that is, recognizing that you all have not qualified what you're seeking
because it's much broader than just facilitation because it depends on what the end goals are.
PEGGY CATLIN: I understand. I just think it might be helpful to know what some of those bench contracts
encompass to see if we could plug into one of them.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right, and we can do that as staff to figure out which one is most applicable because
not all of them would be applicable for the Board's activity. So we could take a look at that.
PEGGY CATLIN: A janitorial services contract. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So I'm just trying to think about what our process is, what's the order of what we
need. I mean, a lot of what we need is facilitation, I think. And I guess we should start with the scope of
work from last year to see what we-- exactly what we need to put in there. If we can get that out to us,
please, team.
And then kind of work backwards on the-- do we need an RFP, an RFQ? We've looked at our bench
contracts. And I can do some of that. And then if possible, I think it's nice to do a Doodle poll to get our
date. So we're not just telling people it's whatever date it is.
If we could do it-- let's see, what are we, mid-January? I'd certainly like to consider it try to get it started in
a couple of months, by mid-March, to get some dates out there. So other thoughts on how we move this
forward?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think mid-March makes sense. I think to the extent we can schedule a study
session about it earlier and pull people for that now, that makes sense. I think pretty much every Director
I've talked to said we need more time as Directors to figure out what we're doing as the Board outside of
the committee meetings. So to the extent we can start off strong with a study session about that and sort
of get a flavor for folks while we're also scheduling the retreat, I think that'd be great.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good idea. So that would probably need to be February. I'm just looking at when
we have meetings.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Tai-Shrae, for sending that out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sending what out?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: I sent out the scope of work from last year. You should have it in your email.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, got it. We have committee meetings and Board meeting. Might be able to do
February 14-- your spouses and significant others might miss that Valentine's. So maybe that's not the
best night to do it. We could probably do February 28 for a study session.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Chair, did you see the calendar update I sent earlier this morning?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I saw it. But I haven't put it into my calendar.

TAI-SHRAE PARISH: So I had made a mistake with the February dates. And so I needed to align them
with the dates that were outlined in the bylaws.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you talk through that for me then, please?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Sure, let me just pull up my email, make sure I'm giving you the right information.
So originally, we had Finance and Planning on the 7th and the 8th. But they were moved to the 14th and
15th to align with the schedule outlined in the bylaws. So I would say for free Tuesdays and Wednesdays
for a study session, you would have the 7th, the 8th, the 21st the 22nd, or you could even go to March
1st.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have the Board meeting on the 21st. Did that change-TAI-SHRAE PARISH: It changed to be in line with the bylaws.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is February 21 enough time to give people but not-- and to sort of plan for a study
session? Does that sound good to people, suggesting that? Right now people think that's a Board
meeting. So it should be open.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, I think that's good. That may squeeze us a little bit for getting into March
because I was going to say that once we have that study session, it may refine what we want-- how we
even want to facilitate this. So just as we get to the 21st, it may take us a little bit of extra time to plan for
March. But I think the 21st makes sense.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So you feel like-- I mean, I would love to get the RFP or RFQ going at the same
time. We feel like we need to wait until after that study session? I guess I'm feeling like if we're getting a
facilitator, they ought to be able to work with-- our issues are going to be around governance, and region,
and communication, and all of those things, policy.
My inclination would be to try to put together a scope of work that we could later refine after that meeting.
But go ahead and start moving forward with collecting names and all of that. Does that sound OK?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah that's fine. That sounds fine.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, and then shall we send out dates for a Saturday retreat the last half of March
and first half of April? All right, cool.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just a head's up-- last half of March, first half of April, I may have to bow out. We'll see,
depends on when grandson number 3 is born.
LYNN GUISSINGER: When do you expect him?
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, he's due April 12. She was early with number one. And now there's a
complication, which may result in a much earlier delivery. Trying to hold on as long as they can. But so
that's-- we'll see.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anybody have any suggestions? I mean, are there other times-- or there-PEGGY CATLIN: We can plan a Saturday along there. But it may be that I would have to call in or
something.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Do it by Zoom or something. OK, all right, we will work on that. And I'll work on a
study session for the 21st. And I guess we need to spend some time on the 26th. And if you all can-- if
you have some thoughts about how we proceed with that, I'm all ears. We'll put that out to the rest of the
Board, too. What questions you'd like to bring up to sort of prep for the retreat.
And to get us just moving forward as a Board, what we're doing, what we should think about changing,
both as the Executive Committee and the Board. I'm interested, OK? I think-- what other matters do we
have? Nothing else? All right, I think we can wind this up then. Do we have a motion to adjourn?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, we are adjourned. Thanks, everybody
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.

