2024-02-22
Executive Committee Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good afternoon. The Thursday, February 22 Executive Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 12:00 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask everyone
attending this meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meeting, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this CART service should send an email to the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided to you. A live stream of this meeting
is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
At this time, I will now call for the roll of committee members. First Vice Chair Catlin. Second Vice Chair
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson. I am also present. That is four committee members
present, one absent. I do believe first Vice Chair Catlin will be joining us, so I will note for the record when
she does. Also will note, for the sake of the record, that we are joined by Director Tisdale. Thank you for
joining us. Are there any other Directors present that I have not noted for the sake of the record?
Seeing none, we'll move forward. I'd also like to thank all members of staff who have taken the time to join
us today and be here in the afternoon.
I'll now move to the public comment section. This is open to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand
or press star 9 on your phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or
responses. However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, you may please
email the RTD Board Office, again, at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Are there any members of the public that have their hand raised to speak? I'll now ask Mr. Kroll from the
Board Office to assist in identifying.

JACK KROLL: Hi, Chair Davidson. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. There are
no individuals present who have indicated a desire to provide comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for that. And also, Mr. Kroll, were there any emailed comments
received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: We have not received any emails in advance of this meeting desiring to provide public
comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much. I very much appreciate that. Also, I will note for the sake of
the record, we are now joined by first Vice Chair Catlin and, as such, all members of the Executive
Committee are present.
We'll now close the public comment period and move into the recommended actions section of our
agenda. There are two recommended actions this afternoon. As a reminder for committee staff and
anyone watching or listening the meeting, any actions that are passed by the Executive Committee, even
if the vote is unanimous, will be included on the Board agenda under recommended actions so that the
full Board will have an opportunity to discuss the measure presented.
The first action for consideration by the committee this afternoon is Senate Bill 24-032, and this is for a
support position. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt a support position on Senate Bill 24-032,
otherwise known as SB32, Methods to Increase Transit Use. Do we have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Guissinger.
ERIK DAVIDSON: The movement is Secretary Guzman and the second, Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
Thank you very much. I'll now turn over the floor to Mr. Michael Davies, our Government Relations
Officer, to please present this item.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair, and members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer.
As stated, this is a recommended action to adopt a support position on Senate Bill 24-032, Methods to
Increase Transit Use. I know the Board has received previous updates on this bill as it's moved through
the interim committee of the Transportation and Legislation Review Committee and has now gone
through its first hearing, is up for its next hearing next Tuesday, the 27th, in the Senate Finance
Committee.
I'll just briefly outline the bill. It really does three things. First, the Ozone Season Transit Grant program,
which is the grant program that was previously administered through the Colorado Energy Office, that
grant program is set to expire July 1, 2024. So this bill would remove that expiration and continuously
fund this grant program into the future. It does also move the administration of the grant program to the
Department of Transportation from the Energy Office.
The next major action that this bill does is creates a Zero Fare for Youth grant funding program that would
be administered through the Department of Transportation. And then the third major action is that it
creates an exploratory committee that really is looking at a statewide transit pass and gives direction to
that exploratory committee to produce a viable proposal with an implementation plan into the future.

And so those are the three main things. There was a personal income tax credit that was associated with
this bill when it was originally drafted, I think due to-- from the author's remarks during the first committee,
that was removed out of this bill, largely for fiscal note purposes and wanting to have a different
separated conversation on that tax credit from this bill.
So those are the three main areas focused in the bill. And I'll end my remarks there and happy to answer
any questions. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Davies, for your report. I'll open up for any questions and
discussion. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Chair. Michael, thank you, and thanks for all your work on
this. You know I'm a big supporter.
I just was curious, the financial impact section of the Board report said that there could be a financial
impact. The amount included does not cover the Zero Fare for Better Air. Is there no financial-- there
wasn't anything listed for the youth fare program. Is that because we believe the cost is less than the
amount available, or what's that about?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Davies, please go ahead.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Director Guissinger, for the question. That is a good point. I suppose
that is a little bit of an oversight. There is a possibility. Currently, as funded in the bill-- and again, this is
from RTD's estimates of what it costs to implement a zero fare program, which were largely produced as
part of the Reimagine effort and the fare study and equity analysis.
And so if there was extra cost, yes, that would produce a fiscal impact for the agency, if the grant funding,
for some reason wasn't enough. And I guess could have been clearer in stating that in the Board report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No problem. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. And General Manager and CEO Johnson, I saw your hand
come up on that. If you'd like to speak on that issue, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Chair Davidson. And thank you, Director Guissinger and
Mr. Davies, for addressing the question that was posed by Director Guissinger.
Recognizing that these are financial forecasts relative to what our farebox recovery ratio would be,
recognizing that we must be good fiduciaries of taxpayer dollars, I don't want to minimize the fiscal
impact, but recognizing where we are on the projections that were made in light of Mr. Davies' comments
relative to our implemented fare structure, we had taken that into consideration when we looked at our
financial forecast going out for the next six years.
We believe that we would be able to accommodate that, with the notion that providing zero fares would
yield a return on investment to actually entice others to want to utilize the system as we go forward. So
when you look at our overarching budget, we're talking about a percentage of a fiscal impact being in the
single digits from a percentage vantage point. So just wanted to add that context. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. That is helpful context. Yeah, please, Second Vice Chair
Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to say thank you. I don't question that at all. I think it's a great program and
worth all our effort and just was curious about that. But thank you both.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Any further questions or discussion?
I just wanted to note, first of all, thank all those who testified in support of this at committee. And I'd like to
highlight, for those who didn't have a chance to listen in or see that, that particularly inspirational and why
we do what we do was seeing a number of young folks who showed up to testify in support of this and
talk about the impact that this has on their lives.
There was also very powerful testimony from Denver Public Schools about truancy rates and about
access to education. It was very powerful seeing that testimony, not to diminish any of the testimony that
members of this Board and our General Manager and CEO and members of the community gave, but
what I think was especially inspirational was seeing young folks show up and talk about access to
education and access to the opportunities of the region. So just wanted to highlight that for folks who
didn't have an opportunity to hear that inspirational testimony that I think reminds us all why we do what
we do.
With that, I will call-- are there any no votes on this action for a position of support of Senate Bill 24-032?
Seeing none, the motion will pass with five votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions. Thank you very
much. And once again, Mr. Davies, thank you for your report and not just your report but also your
tremendous advocacy and work that you've done on this.
Moving to our next recommended action, our second and final recommended action is the Board meeting
accessibility pilot policy. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached Board and committee
meeting accessibility pilot policy. Do we have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So I have the movement as First Vice Chair Catlin and I heard the second as Second
Vice Chair Guissinger. At this time, I'd like to hand the floor over to Mr. Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager
of the Board Office, to present this item. The floor is yours, sir.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Just real quickly want to run through the highlights of this
policy and then talk about the change and why the change and the recommendation was made, and then
happy to take any questions.
This idea was introduced to you all last month around how can you all enhance your accessibility at
Board meetings, the baseline that's provided. You all are always and already complying with all of your
obligations under the ADA and Civil Rights Act, but there was some idea that you all could take those
requirements and go a little bit further and offer enhanced accessibility.
And what this policy is going to set forth for the next year, or the balance of this year, so about nine
months, is that the Board Office will coordinate and provide CART services at all of the Board's meetings
by fall. In previous worlds, and without this policy, I should put it this way, you all would provide that
service at your meeting upon request only.

And so this defaults the practice to being we will have CART present and available at all Board meetings.
In addition to that, we will have available the CART transcript, the capability to automatically have that
CART transcript appear in Spanish. And so what that means is we have a captioner here present. They're
typing in the transcript in real time and then there's a software that automatically translates it into Spanish.
This would be in effect until December 31 of this year or whenever the Board may choose to act further
on this.
There had been some discussion and some direction provided by the Board to also provide Spanish
interpretation services at its Board meetings. However, after receiving that direction, I did some additional
research. And when it came to light that the city of Aurora, who we had been looking to as a leader in this
space, what they're actually doing is different than what I had informed you all they were doing last
month. And what they're actually doing with respect to automatic Spanish interpretation services is they're
providing that at their city council meetings for purposes of allowing the public and anyone in public to
make comments in Spanish and have those interpreted into English for the Council's edification.
And so that was a different way of looking at the issue. And given that information, I think the better route
to go is to offer the CART transcript and have that automatically translated into Spanish. And the Board
Office will continue to monitor and track how well utilized those services are and when we revisit this
conversation at the end of the year offer you data on how well utilized these services are so that you can
make a more informed decision moving forward.
I want to also thank Carl Green, Jr., and Gave Christie for their help on this. As we move forward in this
endeavor, we will continue to work closely with the Civil Rights Division to make sure that we're meeting
all of your obligations under those previously mentioned federal requirements.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for presenting the item. I'll also note for the sake of the record
that we have been joined by Director Ruscha. Thank you for joining us, Director Ruscha. And again, Mr.
Kroll, thank you for the report, and Mr. Christie and Mr. Green, thank you very much for the extensive
work and assistance to the Board Office on this.
At this time, I'll ask for any questions or discussion on this recommended action. Yes, Director Ruscha,
please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I just wanted to note that LA Metro does provide access in
both English and Spanish. And I'm disappointed-- I'll just say, I'm very disappointed to hear in the
Executive Committee change in this latest update. A significant portion of our riders do speak Spanish as
a first language and we as an agency have made some improvements in how we communicate and
provide access but we have a long way to go. So I guess I just wanted to share that feedback.
But one thing that we can do that costs us no money is share more widely how people can access our
meetings. And for example, if someone were to request interpretation services, they would have to dig
pretty deep into our website, find a Board meeting agenda, click on that, and do it on the right day,
because we are not posting this information freely, and pull up a PDF, scroll down and read in English
where you can find interpretation services in Spanish.
And so those are the things that I think we also need to be looking at. How do we broadcast that
information, whether you need an accommodation or you are needing interpretation services. We are
required to provide meaningful access. And speaking as a Director where about 2/3 or more of my riders

speak Spanish as a first language, I just felt like I needed to pipe up and say something and advocate
that we do more, particularly in the areas where, again, it costs us no money. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the comments. Mr. Kroll, is there anything-- I know
that there had been a change here in the process. I know you addressed that in the presentation. Is there
anything further you'd like to say on the matter? And if not-JACK KROLL: Sure. Thank you, Chair Davidson. I think Director Ruscha's comments are well taken. We
can certainly look with the new website on ways to add language there to indicate more-- how would it
say-- so that the viewing public or the public had an easier way to know that these resources could be
requested. And that's feedback well taken and we can certainly look into it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And yes, thank you, Director Ruscha, for highlighting the
challenges with the website there. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll defer to Director Ruscha for the moment, but I'll make a comment as soon as she
is done.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, wonderful. Director Ruscha, I see your hand went back up. Sorry. Thank you. Go
ahead, Director Ruscha.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also appreciate my colleague's grace there. I just wanted to add
that since we moved to a new website, I have had individuals who regularly attend or attend our meetings
tell me that they can't find our page and our information. So I just wanted to note that.
Also, it is best practice when putting out announcements and sharing how to access interpretation
services to put that out in multiple languages. And so I just wanted to put that out there as well, if we are
actually considering making some changes to our website.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the further comments on that. Duly noted. And now
we'll go to Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. So I will make it brief, but quick. Two things. One is interpretation is
different than translation. We need to make sure that we're using the correct language. Interpretation is
the verbal communication from one language to another when you are changing the language.
Translation is written translation services. So CART is technically going through a translation service but a
human that would be speaking into a microphone would be interpreting.
That's my area of specialty, so I just want to make sure that's clear for everybody and that we're using the
right information in our presentations. I've talked to Mr. Kroll about that. And so we got that cleared up.
That's one piece.
The second piece is I do understand Director Russia's comments. I also worry about access for Spanish
speakers in particular being the largest minority language that we serve as a population in Denver, as
evidenced by doing our website in English, Spanish, and, I believe it was Chinese, Mandarin, if I'm not
mistaken, following shortly thereafter. Looks like we've gotten Vietnamese up as well. And those services
are requestable but they are difficult to find that information. So I'm not sure how to make that more
available to the public.

But I am excited either way that I will be able to look at a transcript in my native language while we're
having conversation when I get stuck, because that's a lot of the note taking that I'm known for is trying to
figure out quickly how to capture an idea that's being expressed. So I do look forward for this coming to
the Board and I am in favor of it at this point. It doesn't mean that it's over. I think it's just a starting point
to launch us off to more accessibility. But it's a large elephant that we're trying to contain and so small
bites are often better. That's where I'm at with it. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman, for the comments, and thank you for the specificity of
the language of interpretation versus translation. And thank you for echoing Director Ruscha's comments
around overall accessibility to find those services. Certainly something that I'm sure we can all work on
here collectively. So thank you for the comments.
I'll now move to Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And thanks to both of our colleagues for those comments. I
think they're helpful. And Mr. Kroll, for your response that you'll be able to address some of that. Can you
just circle back with us in a memo or something at some point and let us know what you're able to do to
make that more accessible? Thank you so much.
JACK KROLL: Will do.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Second Vice Chair Guissinger, and thank you, Mr. Kroll. First
Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for all the comments. And I just want to state the old cliche that perfect is the
enemy-- or let's not make perfect the enemy of the good. This is a pilot project and there are opportunities
to certainly tweak it and make it better. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair Catlin. You're here on that with taking important
steps in the right direction, just as Secretary Guzman had stated. I think that's very well stated with
respect to this being a pilot program. Any further discussion or questions?
OK. Thank you. I'll also call for the vote now, as I did for the last recommended action, by asking, are
there any no votes on this action? OK. Again, with five aye votes, zero no votes, and zero abstention, the
motion will pass. Thank you very much.
With that, we'll now move on to our February Board meeting agenda review. Is there a motion to move
the February Board agenda to the Board meeting on February 27?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Guissinger.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. The motion has Treasurer Bouquet, the second as Second Vice Chair
Guissinger. Thank you.
I want to call everyone's attention to the second item on the draft agenda, which is the installation and
swearing in of a new Board member. As we know, Mr. Jaime Lewis has been appointed by the Mayor of
Denver to fill the vacancy in District A that was left by former Director Williams' resignation. Our best
understanding is that the Denver City Council will take up the matter of confirming Mr. Lewis during the

meeting on February 26. Assuming that the Denver City Council does indeed confirm Mr. Jaime Lewis,
we will plan to be swearing him in at the next evening at our February 27 meeting.
I'd also like to note that I have invited Mr. Lewis to attend and participate in our retreat this Saturday, as I
believe it is critically important that we have the participation of all Directors that would be serving on the
Board this year. So with that being noted, I'll ask if there is any further discussion or any questions
concerning the agenda for February 27? Yes, I see Secretary Guzman. Please go ahead, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: On this one, we have an external entities report from Front Range Passenger Rail.
Will somebody from Front Range Passenger Rail be coming before this Board to have a conversation, or
will it be our liaison, CEO/GM Johnson, who will be providing that service?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. Yes, we will have Andy Karsian from Front Range
Passenger Rail. I see that General Manager and CEO's hand is raised, who, of course, serves as an exofficio member on the Board of the Front Range Passenger Rail District. So please go ahead to provide
any additional context that you would like.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you very much for the questions posed.
Recognizing what Chair Davidson did comment on, yes, it will be Andy Karsian providing an update on
the efforts of the Front Range Passenger Rail undertaking as it relates to their service development plan
and other elements specifically when coordinating with the Executive Manager of the Board Office.
It was placed under external entities, recognizing that Mr. Karsian is external to the organization and so
wanted to have you all be aware of that going forward, that it's merely to ensure that there is an
understanding of what's happening with that undertaking, recognizing the synergies and operational
efficiencies, especially as we look at the enabling legislation that brought forth the Front Range
Passenger Rail District and my role as an ex-officio member to that Board of Directors. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please go ahead, Secretary.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Will we have anybody coming before the Board from either the Governor's Office or
anywhere else, just simply FRPR? And I ask because we have all seen the news and the submission to
the public of a white paper that is a coordinated effort. And so I'm just curious.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Secretary Guzman. I'm happy to start with the answer. And then I
see, Ms. Johnson, you had raised your hand and would invite you to add any additional context you'd like.
No, it is not my understanding that the Front Range Passenger Rail District will be joined by anyone from
the Colorado Department of Transportation or from the administration, being Governor Polis'
Administration. Seeing that the Front Range Passenger Rail District has been moving forward with its
own efforts in pursuit of a service development plan, I believe the intent of this update is to hear
specifically with what has been transpiring with the Front Range Passenger Rail District.
This update is certainly, I think, timely and important. It has been since 2021 that this Board approved a
cooperation agreement between RTD, CDOT, and the predecessor of the Front Range Passenger Rail
District, which was the Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission. So I think this is
just to focus on the Front Range Passenger Rail District and is separate from the press release or the

white paper that is now on the CDOT's website, which has put forward the concept of a potential joint
powers authority that the state might consider.
With that, I'd like to open the floor. Ms. Johnson, I did see your hand was raised. And recognizing your
role with the Front Range Passenger Rail District, if there's any further context you'd like to offer, I would
certainly welcome that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Chair Davidson. I believe you answered the question.
Because recognizing that CDOT nor the Governor's administration are in employee capacities, I qualify
my statements by saying there is representation on the Board of Directors by a representative CDOT. But
yes, you qualified the intent going forward, recognizing that in the enabling legislation it talked about there
would be reports being made to the RTD Board that will be modified somewhat going forward. But I don't
want to speculate on any proposed legislation relative to that. But you summed up the intent, so I have
nothing else to add to your comments. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Secretary Guzman, thank you for the question. It's an
important one, given that there are all these multifaceted things being discussed in a very public way. And
so Secretary Guzman, I want to open the floor back up to you if you have any further questions or
clarifications on that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I do not at this point. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. I'll now move to Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to offer a few points of information. The first is
that FRPR does meet today and their agenda is on their website. Joint powers authority is on that
agenda. The Zoom link is there. And I would just encourage Directors to hop on that one after this one, if
you have time.
Second, regarding the legislation moving through right now, that bill is public, the language is public.
Currently it removes the requirement for FRPR to copy its annual report to the RTD Board of Directors. It
also would remove ex-officio's executive privilege in certain cases. That does include our GM/CEO.
So I just wanted to apprise my colleagues of those two matters. In case they had further interest, they
know where to look. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha, for highlighting all of that. Very much appreciated on
those comments. And Ms. Johnson, I see your hand is raised. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly. I just want to qualify a point of clarification. The Front
Range Passenger Rail District Board meeting is tomorrow, Friday, February 23, at 9:00 AM. So I just want
to offer that up. They do have study workshops and things of the like, but I just wanted to make the
distinction between the two. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the clarification. Mr. Kroll, I think this is, given the importance of this, I'd
like to request, could we send out an email to Directors with the link and meeting information to ensure
that all Directors know where to find this and how to join?
JACK KROLL: Certainly. Happy to get that out.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Much appreciated. Director Ruscha, I see your hand is still
raised. Do you have further comment or question on this?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Kroll, I will send you the information for the study meeting today that commences
at 1:00 PM, in case you want to get that out as well, since there are two meetings happening this week.
But the joint authority discussion is also on their agenda for 1:15 PM today for a workshop. But I think
both points of information I think would be helpful for those who are interested.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha and Mr. Kroll. And thank you for being willing to
coordinate to disseminate information to the full Board. I'll now move to First Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think Director Guzman asked the question. But given that there
are a lot of moving parts and ancillary pieces, the report from the Front Range Passenger Rail is really, as
I understand it, limited to their activities and not some of these other pieces going on. So I would
encourage us to be disciplined when we ask our questions, not to talk about or speculate about other
matters that are going on.
That's just my point of view. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for that point of view, First Vice Chair Catlin. Yeah, certainly a
easy thing to be speculating on, and thank you for the reminder with respect to this being focused on the
work of the Front Range Passenger Rail District and any potential intersection it may have with RTD's
efforts.
Other questions or discussion on the agenda for which we have the movement as Treasurer Bouquet and
second as Second Vice Chair Guissinger? Yes, Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I just wanted to know when that packet will go out. I'm particularly
interested in seeing the staff's presentation on their light rail replacement plan. And having access to that
as soon as possible I think would help us because it will be the first comprehensive discussion this Board
has had on the matter.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. I see, Mr. Kroll, your hand is raised.
Would you like to comment on the timing of the packet?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, thank you, Chair Davidson, and Director Ruscha, for the question. We had a Board
Office meeting earlier this morning and we're still waiting on a few more materials related to the packet.
The ambition would, of course, be to get it out as soon as possible. I would say it's likely that it will go out
tomorrow at the latest.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for confirming that. Mr. Kroll. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question.
Are there any other questions or discussion with respect to the agenda?
Are there any no votes to moving the agenda forward to the February 27 Board meeting? Seeing and
hearing no no votes, that is, again, five aye votes, zero no votes, and zero abstentions, and the agenda
will move forward.
Moving on to discussion items. We do have two discussion items on the agenda this afternoon. The first
is the monthly Government Relations report for February 2024. Mr. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer, again, thank you for your work here. This has been a busy year so I very much

appreciate your work and your willingness to engage with us and present these reports. I'll hand the floor
off to you, sir.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair, and members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer.
Just a brief Government Relations report. First, starting at the federal level, as reported to the Board last
month, Congress was able to pass a continuing resolution to keep funding federal programs. They did a
split on that. The USDOT programs are funded until March 1. There has been movement and some
agreement to top line funding figures. And that is a very key step in Congress to moving toward being
able to complete appropriations bills.
The House is currently not in session and doesn't plan to come back into session until late in the month.
So there will be a tight timeline to get it through the Senate and get it through the House and have an
actual full appropriations process completed for fiscal year '24 at the federal level. We'll be watching that
closely and will report to the Board on the outcome of those discussions.
Moving over to the state level, much of the written report in the beginning focuses on Senate Bill 24-032.
Having just had a discussion on that in the committee, I will not go through that bill again, other than just
to remind you all that the next hearing is next Tuesday in the Senate Finance Committee for that bill.
There is one piece of pending legislation that was introduced this week and is not in the written report.
And it doesn't necessarily have a financial or direct impact to RTD but very much an adjacent impact. And
as General Manager Johnson often talks about, transit and housing very much work together in a lot of
ways. And so there was a bill. It is bill number, House Bill 24-1313. And that title is Concerning Measures
to Increase the Affordability of Housing in Transit-Oriented Communities
RTD staff has provided technical considerations for lawmakers and the Governor's Office on questions
related to transit-oriented development and communities. That said, staff is still digesting that bill but
wanted to make sure that the committee was aware. And there has been some media reports also related
to that bill. But we'll be following that, as it was just introduced.
Lastly, regarding potential legislation, and also reported by local media outlets that you all may have
seen, there was a draft summary document circulated on potential legislation that would impact RTD. The
document's really titled Transit Reform and Governance and it focuses on four main policy areas. The first
focus, titled improved decision making and collaboration with regional and local planning, support training
for transit operators across the state, budget and reporting transparency, and lastly, Board reform.
Again, I would say this is very much a summary document. There is no actual legislation. Staff has not
seen any actual bill language. With that being said, it's very difficult to take the summary concepts at a
very 30,000-foot level that are stated in this document and translate that into something concrete that I
can report to the Board. Really would need to see legislative language to be able to give a concrete report
on what might come of this potential summary document. But with that, wanted to make sure that I
reported it to the Board, and we are, of course, working closely with the Governor's Office, members of
the state legislature on this matter.
And with that, moving to the local section. As stated in the written report, Director Sloan, myself, and Mr.
Kroll did attend the first Metro Mayors Caucus of 2024. Did have a brief opportunity to summarize that

potential bill summary that I just mentioned and have an opportunity to dialogue with the Metro Mayors
Caucus.
Also noted in the report, Director Bouquet, General Manager Johnson, myself, and Chief Fitzgerald and
members of his team from transit police were able to attend and engage with the Parker town council in a
study session. And that was on Monday, February 12. And had a fairly long and extensive dialogue with
members of the town council and received a lot of feedback, and overall I think productive conversation
and an opportunity to be able to engage with our local lawmakers.
With that, I will end my report and happy to take any questions. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Davies. I'll now open up the floor for any questions or
comments from Directors, starting with Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, I'm just full of questions today.
Mr. Davies, do you know, or maybe Madam GM/CEO, when the next LUTI committee will be meeting with
RTC as a guest for the Denver City Council, also the TLRC invitation to speak before the Joint
Committee? I just want to make sure that I get those locked down on my calendar so that I can be
available to show up and support and stand behind and be there with you all.
And if we don't know that those dates right now, that's OK. But can we get them out as soon as you have
an awareness of them so that all Board members who are capable of going and able to arrive can be
present? I think that showing a strong presence at those meetings has had quite an impact. And getting
to see faces that we run into at the grocery store or at events is helpful so that we can know who we're
talking to. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Secretary Guzman. Yeah, Mr. Davies, please go ahead.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Sorry, Chair. Thank you. And certainly, Mr. Guzman, don't have the dates off
the top of my head, but we'll make sure that that information is circulated.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. And again, this is-- I think, Secretary Guzman, thank you for
the question and the coordination on this. There's an opportunity here, I think, to coordinate schedules
between, Mr. Davies, you and your office, and the Board Office and Mr. Kroll and we can make sure to
disseminate information out for the whole Board's benefit.
Thank you very much for that question. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think this comes under the purview of
Government Relations. And I wondered if I could gauge the appetite of the Executive Committee for
potentially issuing a resolution of commendation to Nuria Fernandez upon the event of her retirement
from the FTA as the administrator of FTA.
Nuria has been a good friend of RTD in Denver, very supportive of us. She knows a number of us
personally. And I wondered whether it might be something that we would be interested in doing, because
I think her last day was yesterday. I forget. But I was wondering whether we might want to do that. Thank
you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I'll open up the floor for any comments from Directors
regarding your request to consider a commendation. Yes, please, Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Tisdale, what is it you're proposing? What's the
commendation?
DOUG TISDALE: Just to congratulate her upon her successful career as the administrator of the FTA and
working so collaboratively with transit agencies across the country, including RTD Denver.
LYNN GUISSINGER: A letter from the Board.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I thank you for the question, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Just to clarify on that final
question there, Director Tisdale, that you'd be seeking a letter to go out from RTD. You're on mute, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. I think perhaps a letter. We could do it in the form of a letter that says, this
reflects a resolution of the Board commending Nuria Fernandez on a successful term as the administrator
of the FTA and thanking her for her continued collaboration and cooperation with transit agencies across
the country, including RTD Denver. As simple as that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Other comments on that matter? I know we're still in
Government Relations here, but from Executive Committee members, given the question from Director
Tisdale. Director Ruscha, please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, I raised my hand to speak on general matters in Government Relations. I
have no comment on Director Tisdale's proposition.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Further comments from Executive Committee members regarding a
letter of commendation? Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is there some language that could be drafted so we can take a peek at it? I mean,
as simple as what you said sounds fine. And then we can quickly attend to the matter. Would that be
something that you'd be amenable to, Director Tisdale?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I would be happy to do that. I would do it in
consultation with Mr. Davies. As I say, I brought it up under Government Relations because obviously, in
terms of our outreach to the FTA, which in effect this is, I'd want to make sure that it was something that
he had an opportunity to pass on.
But yes, it would be about as simple as what I just said. It's a very short one or two paragraph letter with
about four sentences of praise and congratulations.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale, and thank you, Secretary Guzman, for asking the
question of potentially proposing some language. Given that that would engage staff, I'd like to turn to-- I
see Ms. Johnson, you've raised your hand. Please go ahead.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you too, Director Tisdale, for broaching
that. Administrator Fernandez is retiring effective as of tomorrow. And I would just offer that we could help
provide some fodder.
I will share that I have been privy to some of the celebrations relative to memorializing her 41-plus years
in the industry. For y'all's edification, she was deputy administrator during the Clinton Administration back
in the '90s as well. And so with that as a backdrop, we could, I would say it'd be most advantageous to
incorporate some elements, recognizing that she has been in this role for a little over three years and we
have acting administrator Vanderpool that will be in that stead.
So I could lean in with Michael Davies, recognizing I do have some insight into what's going on in that
vein. Would be happy to do so and share that with the Board as appropriate. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you, Ms. Johnson, for your comments and for that. Just for the sake of
keeping track of where we are in the discussion here, I have that Ms. Johnson and Mr. Davies as staff are
willing to engage with Director Tisdale on the drafting of some simple language that would go into a letter
of commendation. And that would be what we're gauging feedback on here.
I do see that, Mr. Kroll, your hand is raised. I'll call on you. And I thank my fellow Directors for the
patience here. Mr. Kroll, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, thank you. I'm just approaching this from an administrative perspective. Director
Tisdale used the word resolution. So would it be your intent, Director Tisdale, to have this appear again
on an agenda for the full Board to approve? Or in the interest of time, is this something that the
consensus can be reached that the letter goes out without a vote of the Board?
I just want to make sure, because we have the meeting next week and we've got a packet coming and the
agenda and all of the above there.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. You raise an excellent point. And I prefer the
phrasing, a letter of commendation. And we could technically have a letter of commendation from the
Executive Committee and this committee could simply authorize that now.
It might be better, because I think other Board members would want to have the opportunity to weigh in, if
we could somehow bring this up, perhaps even under Other Matters, in the meeting on Tuesday and say
that we want to send a brief letter of commendation to Nuria Fernandez, congratulating her on a
successful career in transit and a successful term as administrator of the FTA, and just make it what we
sometimes in the past have called a head nod approval by the Board.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: That would be perfectly reasonable for us to accommodate if that works also for GM/CEO
Johnson and Michael Davies. We would be happy to add in the agenda. You all have just voted to
approve the agenda, though. So we wouldn't necessarily add a bullet point but everyone would know that
this is coming, if that's fair? OK. At least everyone who's on this call and is aware of the conversation that
came here, that Director Tisdale would raise this matter under Other Matters and seek consensus at that
point. OK. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. First Vice Chair Catlin, thank you for
your patience. Please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: I actually had a similar question as Mr. Kroll. And I just didn't know if we had any
precedent or anything that we had done before of a similar vein. I'm in support of this certainly. And with
GM/CEO Johnson's support and Michael Davies' support, I think it's appropriate. I just wasn't sure what
we had perhaps done in the past in a similar situation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. Mr. Kroll, I think maybe we could offline, if you
wouldn't mind looking at what, if anything, had been done in the past. Could be helpful context as one is
drafted.
Certainly I'll lend my-- I'm open to the idea then. I appreciate the discussion and consensus arrival here
that we would draft a letter of commendation to be brought up in Other Matters, that letter being drafted
by Director Tisdale and General Manager and CEO Johnson and Mr. Michael Davies in coordination with
Mr. Kroll and the Board Office. I think I hear general support on that. So please go ahead and provide
what that draft would be.
Thank you. We'll now continue the discussion on the Government Relations report provided by Mr.
Davies. Director Ruscha, I believe you said you had a comment under Government Relations, so please
go ahead. The floor is yours.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I just wanted to note that the Department of Transportation
Infrastructure at the city of Denver, which we call DOTI, will be presenting to Land Use Transportation and
Infrastructure, the LUTI committee, on March 5 regarding the city's policy on bus stops and prioritization. I
think that matter would be of interest to a couple of us on this call. But if I forward that information to Mr.
Kroll, perhaps he can also share that as well.
And then I had a question for Mr. Davies, if I may, Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please. Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Mr. Davies, I had emailed you and our Chair and our CEO regarding the
vulnerable road users bill and enterprise fund bill. And I was just wondering if you would be able to update
us on the status of that and if you were able to ascertain if we might be eligible for future funding if that bill
were to pass.
My understanding is that under the federal mandate, transit agencies and transportation-- transit, excuse
me, is part of that conversation. However, under the Governor's current plan and the public language of
this bill, we would not necessarily qualify for state funding as it's currently written. But if you had any other
context, that would be helpful. The bill is moving through the legislature pretty quickly.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. And just before, Mr. Davies, I'll hand to you for that
question. I just wanted to acknowledge the first part of the comment. Director Ruscha, thank you for
highlighting the March 5 meeting regarding policy on bus stops. Yes, certainly of interest. Mr. Kroll, I saw
you give the thumbs up. So for the sake of the record, just to note that we'll coordinate through the Board
Office to disseminate that information. Mr. Kroll and staff and the Board Office, thank you for helping us
coordinate.

With that, for the second part of the question there, Mr. Davies, I'll open the floor to you if you have any
comments in response to Director Ruscha's question.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair, and thank you, Director Ruscha, for the question.
And yes, I'm aware of the bill and will add it to the chart. It's not currently in the legislative tracking chart,
so that the Board can follow along on this bill as well and read that bill language through the link in that
tracking chart. So that will be added to the next tracking chart that's circulated to the Board.
Specifically with regards to your question, it appears that RTD is an eligible entity for this potential grant
fund, should this bill pass and be approved and the grant fund be created, that RTD would be an entity
that could apply for that. The bill does outline-- and think this is what you were stating in your remarks
there-- does outline a number of eligible projects that this grant funds could be used on. And I could
speculate that there are potential projects that RTD could interact with with local sponsors in regards to
safety measures at crossings, et cetera.
And so I'd think I'd leave it at that, that I think there's always a potential for that intersection, but RTD is an
eligible entity.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. Director Ruscha, follow up, and does that answer your
question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I apologize, I was looking for the button. It sort of does. Just briefly, are you saying
that under the current construction of the bill, we are eligible? Or are you referencing the federal mandate
and that scope? My plain language interpretation of the bill language is that we might not be eligible for
these funds if the enterprise was created. And so I guess what I'm asking is, did we get or can we get
clarification from the bill sponsors and the drafter on that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, I will seek that clarification and get back to you and the committee members and
members of the Board.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies, for offering that action to seek clarification on the bill language
on the eligibility. And I see Director Ruscha did lower he hand. Do you have any further questions or
comments?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. Thank you. And I will also depart this meeting so I can catch the FRPR meeting.
Thank you for allowing me to attend and provide feedback.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Further questions or comments with respect to the
monthly Government Relations report of February 2024? Thank you very much, Mr. Davies, for your
report. Very much look forward to the next one and the continued work.
With that, we will move to our final discussion item. This is the proposed amendments to the Board
operating guidelines. Board Office Executive Manager Kroll, I will call upon you to present the item. I'd like
to thank you for your work on this. And looking at this, I'd also like to Thank Secretary Guzman and
Treasurer Bouquet for also offering to look at this and contribute thoughts to the update.
So with that, Mr. Kroll, I'll hand off to you to please present the item.

JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. I'll keep my remarks here relatively brief.
You all passed, by way of a resolution, the initial operating guidelines in 2019. It was the first resolution
passed that year. In that resolution you all made a commitment to revisiting these guidelines at a meeting
in the first quarter of each year. And so that's why it's kind of coming back before, just generally regularly
looking at these, having Directors provide input.
Overall, the guidelines are just that. They're guidelines. They're things that require shared commitment.
They take their value and they have their authority through that shared commitment. They're not binding
the Board to anything. It's just, these are the guidelines you all are setting forth as sort of rules of
engagement, terms of engagement for how you all are going to interact together. But they don't really
have much substantive authority beyond everyone's shared commitment to them.
That being said, Chair Davidson and I did look at these and offer some initial suggestions and changes.
And then as you highlighted, Chair Davidson, we also sent these along to Director Guzman and Director
Bouquet for some further comment.
The goal today is to get some additional feedback from the Executive Committee and those present on
the proposed changes. The proposed changes will then be emailed out to the full Board for further
comment and consideration, and they'll return to this committee next month. Barring any changes to the
proposed amendments, or including any changes to the proposed amendments, they'll return to this
committee next month as a recommended action and the full Board for approval of that recommended
action.
To highlight quickly some of the major changes that are here. These derive from best practices that I've
seen at the University of Colorado Board of Regents as well as practices you all are trying to implement
and instill, for example, sharing in advance with your colleagues any upcoming or past media appearance
that's likely to come forward. So if you're going to be in the press and talking, certainly that doesn't
prevent you from doing that. But it's just a good practice under the no surprises idea to share that with
your colleagues.
Another change that's being proposed is one that's been talked about frequently in the development of
work plans and other items this year is assuming time is afforded to bring large items first as a discussion
item to the committee and then as an action item.
And then lastly, there was some language included-- these aren't by any means the whole list of changes,
but just a flavor here for your consideration-- there was some language included referencing work plans
and the value of working through committee chairs and those work plans to enact policy and conduct the
business of the Board.
I guess maybe one final comment on this is we did update it standard to-- we did bring the document
forward from a formatting perspective into what RTD is using now for branding and document formatting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, for presenting that. And again, thank you for the work
on this. Great to be revisiting this. I do think continuing to do so in the first quarter will make sense for this
Board as we continue to improve our practices with each other.
I just would like to highlight, I very much appreciate the sections here calling out how we address policy
setting, how we run efficient meetings, how we communicate during meetings, how we collaborate, and

how we cooperate. I very much appreciate those sections. And once again, thank you, Treasurer Bouquet
and Secretary Guzman, for also lending your voices and input to improving this document.
With that, I'll open up the floor for any additional comments or questions from Directors or committee
members. Again, reminding everyone that the question at hand is, by Mr. Kroll, is any additional feedback
to further improve these operating guidelines. Director Tisdale, please go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I just want to say as the principal author of the Board operating
guidelines in 2019, when I served as Chair, I truly appreciate and applaud these clarifications and efforts.
I think it's an excellent thought and I'm glad that we are taking up this review. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And thank you for your leadership and bringing this to
fruition. It's an excellent document for us to have and all be aware of. So thank you for that. Secretary
Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So just reviewing quickly the document that we were sent, I'm particularly looking at
some of the older supporting documents that, for example, the 2019, 2018 through 2019, on our packet,
it's page 58. And there's a few older documents in there that talk about Board bylaws, expectations.
Is that just for edification, for knowledge, for historical reference? Do we need to also maybe adjust the
language to bring current some of those? Is that an additional task? I'm mystified as to why they're there,
but I can kind of see why. So I'm just asking for clarification on that point. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Secretary Guzman. Mr. Kroll, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, thanks. Thanks for the question, Secretary Guzman. There was some conversation
amongst the Board Office staff as well as General Counsel Snyder as to whether or not to include the
appended memos from prior General Counsel to this Board packet item.
What we have published currently is on our website. I should say, what you have all currently on your
website includes these additional memos. As you can see, some of the changes we're proposing is we're
removing explicit reference to these in the actual operating guidelines. I think it is valuable if anyone
wanted to dive into some of those practices and bring forward some of those ideas from that into the
operating guidelines. But at some point, Director Guzman, I think we're getting to the place where that
information is a little dated.
Obviously, we have a new General Counsel now. So the plan moving forward would actually be to
remove these as a reference from the documents. But if there was anything of value in there, we wanted
to make sure that they were included so that people could have that. And then if they wanted to bring
forward anything in those to the operating guidelines, they could.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. That's all I was curious about.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. Thank you, Mr. Kroll for the answer and clarification on
the plan. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I just wanted to point out that the memo from Rolfe about
executive sessions was very particularly included because at the time there were a couple of Directors
who had taken the position that they were free to discuss items that were raised in executive session by

the Board. And we wished to have an opportunity to clarify that executive sessions are executive for all
purposes and are not to be commented on by individual Directors after those meetings.
So it was a-- I'll watch my language here-- it was an effort to make sure that we clarified these rules to
some people. I think we do not need to have the express reference to them. But I'm glad that they're
included here, because I think it's helpful for Directors to see, particularly as to that item-- the other one is
a broader kind of conduct of meetings thing. But relative to the executive session and the secrecy of
those is something that is always worthwhile to highlight to Directors. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Mr. Kroll, do you have a comment on that?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, just because the specific item came up, I want to draw everyone's attention to
where that change is at. This is, I'm on page 48 of 64 in the packet. This is under Regarding
Collaboration. The proposed change is to the final two statement in that section, to honor the
confidentiality of discussions had during the course of and in the context of an executive session. That
portion is remaining.
Obviously, it's, to Director Tisdale's point, very important to maintain the confidentiality of your executive
sessions. However, we're proposing to strike the remaining balance of that which references this specific
memo.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Further comments or questions on these guidelines?
Given that Mr. Kroll is seeking some feedback here, I certainly invite members of this committee, as well
as other Directors, to engage with Mr. Kroll as these are finalized and before they come before all of us.
Again, I just would like to thank you, Mr. Kroll, for dusting this off and looking at this. Very, very important
for us to be efficient.
I would note that I especially am pleased to see the inclusion of, when time allows, bringing major
decisions and policy decisions forward as discussion items prior to being recommended actions. I think
that has worked well over the past couple of years on major financial transactions that we have made and
the Finance and Planning Committee with respect to stabilizing our FasTracks position.
In an effort to protect our base system and protect our overall system, there were some very creative
maneuvers and important transactions that we were fortunate enough to have the creative staff and
leadership to bring forward. It, I think, very much helped the Board to have opportunities to discuss, ask
questions, and answer those in advance of major decisions. So thank you for the inclusion of that, among
other things that have improved here.
With that, we'll move off of our discussion items. And again, just invite Directors to reach out with any of
these matters to the Board Office.
And I'll now move to Other Matters and ask if there are any other matters that members of the committee
or Directors would like to raise? I do see that General Manager and CEO Johnson has raised her hand.
I'd like to please open the floor to you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to provide some clarification in
reference to something that was stated as it relates to Front Range Passenger Rail. For everyone's
edification, Front Range Passenger Rail has workshops that are held the third Thursday of the month.
Director Ruscha, I believe, was referencing the workshop that was held last week.

And then more specifically, I just wanted to clarify that Front Range Passenger Rail Board meetings are
held the fourth Friday of the month. So I just wanted to share that, because I know our Executive
Manager was asked to disseminate a link and I received a private communique relative to that and I
would have been invited to that. So I just wanted to manage everyone's expectations around that. Thank
you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson, for the clarification regarding the
workshops and the workshop that happened last week and the fourth Friday of the month meeting of the
FRPR. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to remind others that Chair Davidson is scheduled
to speak with the Greater Transit Community, or what, Denver-- Greater Denver Transit group tonight.
And so wish you well. I wish I could attend virtually. But just wanted to thank you for representing the
agency.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair Catlin. Yes, for the benefit of everybody here, I
am participating in a Greater Denver Transit meeting this evening, which I understand several Directors
have done in the past, and have an opportunity tonight to discuss how our system is funded, that we are
a taxpayer funded system and a rider funded system, and have a chance to dialogue about what our
short and mid-term financial position is, what our long-term financial position is.
For everyone to know, I plan to discuss the challenge that was presented to this Board in our Mobility
Plan for the Future, which shows potential shortfalls of revenue on a 10-year out plus basis, as well as
talk about the impending threats that we have from TABOR. I'll be seeking to inform the Greater Denver
Transit this evening about the two challenges that come from TABOR, which, of course, are the growth
limitations as well as the ratchet down effect.
And my intent is then to seek the feedback, given their engagement and passion for advocating for
transit, as to what we can do collectively at RTD to garner trust and build information and education
around these issues to help the community support our riders and our taxpayers in bolstering the
resources that will be needed to train for transit to ensure success.
So I look forward to engaging with their group this evening. And I can certainly report back as to what I
hear back from that group and similar advocacy groups. So First Vice Chair Catlin, thank you for
highlighting that opportunity. I look forward to engaging this evening.
Other matters? Great. I just wanted to note one, which is, of course, the retreat is coming this weekend.
You will have an email coming that will have the final agenda. I did have a chance to meet with our
selected facilitators yesterday to discuss the agenda as well as to hear the feedback they received from
other Directors. Sounds like they got quite a bit of feedback from Directors. So thank you to everybody
who engaged with that.
We have arrived at a final draft agenda. I am awaiting that agenda. Once I receive that, I will work with
the Board Office to disseminate that, along with reminders of the schedule for this upcoming Saturday. I
look forward to seeing you all there. There are a number of topics that we'll have to-- I look forward to
engaging on, from agency performance metrics to communication of our true needs and how this agency
is funded, how this agency provides service. I look forward to engaging with all of you on that.

With that, not seeing any other matters, I thank everybody for taking your time this afternoon. The next
Executive Committee will be scheduled for Thursday, March 21. And seeing no further discussion, this
meeting will be adjourned as of 1:15 PM Mountain Standard Time. Thanks, team. Appreciate you all.

