2021 – 03 – 04
GM Oversight & Performance Management
Committee
JULIEN BOUQUET: Hey, I appreciate the time slot of 3 o'clock. That's perfect. So whoever designated that
time, thank you very much.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I think you have Bobby to thank for that.
PEGGY CATLIN: So Marjorie, that parking garage is in your district.
MARJORIE SLOAN: It is. So I'm very proud of the work we've done.
PEGGY CATLIN: They called me because I think it was either before you came on board or early. So they
called me to set it up. But I did let them know, at the time, that that was your district.
So anyway, it just was great.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Good.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I would love to take all the credit for this time slot, but I think Shontel was also pretty
strong on the school-hour department.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Appreciate it. Thank you, Shontel.
SHONTEL LEWIS: You're welcome. Thanks, Bobby. I appreciate that.
VINCE BUZEK: And we all said yes. So we all participated.
MARJORIE SLOAN: [CHUCKLES]
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK, if you all want thank-yous, then thank you. Thank you, all members. [CHUCKLES]
PEGGY CATLIN: Last time I drank my cranberry juice and club soda, Vince accused me of having a big
glass of wine. For the record, I don't drink red wine. [CHUCKLES] And it is cranberry juice.
VINCE BUZEK: It was cranberry juice and what?
PEGGY CATLIN: Club soda. Lemon-lime club soda or lemon-lime sparkling water.
BOBBY DISHELL: Vince, I'm surprised you didn't go with the vodka-cranberry accusation instead of the
red wine.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, well, for the record, I don't drink vodka either. [CHUCKLES]
JOHN MCKAY: Actually, Peggy, didn't we used to call that a Shirley Temple?
PEGGY CATLIN: Not with the cranberry juice, I don't think. We used grenadine.
BOBBY DISHELL: Grenadine.
PEGGY CATLIN: That was grenadine.
VINCE BUZEK: We used to call Peggy Shirley Temple a couple years ago.
[ALL CHUCKLE]
It's a long story. Barbara, do you know if Chair Rivera-Malpiede is coming?
BARBARA MCMANUS: She is supposed to be coming. We forwarded her the link again earlier today
because she wasn't able to find it. And I think we're still expecting Melanie and-- oh, Debra's on, I see.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, Melanie is trying to get in, just as I was. So that's who I was speaking with.

VINCE BUZEK: OK, we'll give Melanie another minute, and then we'll get going. And as they come in, they
can catch up.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There's the Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: There she is. Good. OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I wouldn't miss this meeting, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: I can only see you from here up. Are you in the hot tub, or-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [CHUCKLES] It's snowing here now. [CHUCKLES]
VINCE BUZEK: Good. OK, let's get going. So I will call to order the Thursday, March 4, 2021 GM Oversight
and Performance Management Committee meeting. I will take the roll. I see most of you. But let me just do
it anyway. Our Vice Chair, Marjorie Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: And our alternate, Julien Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: And other Board members on the call, please identify yourself
DOUG TISDALE: Director Tisdale is present.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. And staff people on the call, please identify yourselves.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
JOHN MCKAY: This is John McKay, Court Office Administrator.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Barbara McManus.
VINCE BUZEK: Anybody else? I guess that's it. OK, what's next? Safety moment-- and I guess I've learned- I thought there was a script for this, but I guess it's kind of off the cuff. So I'm happy to do an off-the-cuff
safety moment.
We're still in the grips of the COVID pandemic. So please ensure that you wear a mask or, as Director
Bouquet does, wear two masks. That's even better. Keep your distance. Six feet is a minimum. And we're
not Neanderthals, so let's all get along and get this done.
Get your vaccines when you can. Director Catlin just told us about-- got her first shot. I'm getting mine on
Saturday. So let's keep bending that curve down.
Look both ways at corners and cross out the lights. If there's anything else anybody wants to add, feel free.
Otherwise, we're going to start with our discussion items. We have no action items, just discussion items.
And some of the items-- I wanted to get the ball rolling just basically to discuss the mechanics versus the
methodology of the evaluation process.

So, in your packet, were a lot of details and information from what happened in the past and what some of
the principles were in the past. As you'll have noted, a number of them were from quite some time ago. And
so it might be time for us to take another hard look at some of that stuff, and as we move forward, determine
how we're going to evaluate the General Manager so that we can look at more outcome-based performance
measures. I think everybody's kind of expressed an interest in that.
So towards the end, we're going to hopefully get an update on the Facilitator's search and our goal-setting
retreat, whatever we want to call it. And so some of these discussions, in terms of the evaluation, are
ethereal, I suppose, because we don't have goals and action items and things like that. But I think those
are more mechanical things. And if we talk about the methodology a little bit, that'd be great.
First thing up is the Sound Transit Concept. I'm going to push that back to the end of that agenda. And
we're going to start with Compensation and Benchmarking Philosophy. And if any staff member can update
us what that is, what it means, and how it impacts us, please do.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Barbara. Go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm hearing some feedback. Are you hearing me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. It's feedback, Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't know what's causing that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's fine now. You're fine.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Is it?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yep.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Thank you. So once a year, we would work with a lot of the other APTA
agencies. We, meaning the Board Office, would go out, we would get some local information about other
government agencies as well as working with all of the APTA Board support groups, to bring together a
benchmarking overview of where we are.
As we've had in conversations in the past, this is not an easy task, because we're not always comparing
apples with apples. So we have brought forward some things in a grid in the past, with different agencies
of our same size, agencies that are elected, agencies that have large land area as we do, a number of
different elements that we try to pull together in getting an average benchmarking to bring forward.
And this recommendation came out as well as the other policies in this packet were brought forward from
recommendations from the State Audit Committee in 2009.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that info. Go ahead. I'm sorry.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, Mr. Chair, I was going to ask a question of Ms. McManus. She indicated that
typically they would do benchmarking with APTA. APTA consolidates its information. It's something that's
disseminated to all CEOs of the agencies. You guys don't have access to that? as opposed to doing a
gridlike system yourself that's already readily available throughout.
BARBARA MCMANUS: None of the General Managers in the past have shared that with me.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Well, let's make sure we get that information. Maybe our work here is done. And this is for
General Manager salary. And as we move down the line and we consider, Debra, for the possibility of
increases to salary. I think that's, I hate to say it, premature right now. And Debra's only been here for 10
minutes. But as we move forward, we'll really take a hard look at that. And Debra or whoever has access
to the data that is from APTA, that would be good to see as well.

Does anybody, at this point in time, have any questions with regard to the Compensation and Benchmarking
Philosophy item on the agenda?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Just another point of clarity I would add, recognizing that we came before this body-not this exact one, but the Board of Directors-- last week. And there's benchmarking agencies that the
agency has utilized relative to looking at our comprehensive operations analysis and things of the like. Are
we consistent in reference to what we qualify as our peer agencies as we go forward? Or do they change?
Recognizing that, oftentimes, I hear that this agency is the 16th largest. What is that predicated upon? Are
we looking at budget size? Are we looking at the number of vehicles in our fleet, the number of annual
boardings we have? So I would just share that as we talk about what the methodology is going forward,
that we should be consistent throughout, contingent upon what it is and how we qualify peer agencies.
Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Ms. Johnson. That's a good point. We want to make sure we're comparing apples
to apples. And there are a lot of factors that go into that comparison. So we'll make sure we focus on that.
Any other questions regarding Compensation and Benchmarking Philosophy?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Buzek, I saw Chair Rivera-Malpiede's hand up as my hand is up as well.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry. I should look at that, shouldn't I?
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Director Catlin.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. I'll start with Chair Rivera-Malpiede. And you're on mute. Can't hear. Are you OK?
Should we go on? OK. Who else was it? Was it Director Catlin?
BARBARA MCMANUS: End cost.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, wait a minute, I'm unmuted. [CHUCKLES]
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, great. Go.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I meant to say, thank you, General Manager, for bringing up the whole
component around us being the 16th largest transit agency in the country. I say that quite often. When I
say it, I am referring to our geographic footprint of just under 2,400 square miles, which is huge.
But being that big, I would assume our fleet is equal to that. So I do think that has some merit in making
sure that the agencies we are peering with are comparable. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate what GM CEO Johnson mentioned. Because we are
using some comparable agencies in both of our peer reviews through APTA. And when you talking about
apples to apples, we have Macintosh and we have Honeycrisp and we have Golden Delicious. So nothing
is actually the same.
But I would ask, respectfully, that Director Tisdale has a great deal of access to fellow APTA Executive
Committee members and others. And he might be a good resource also to tap into some of that information.
I just wanted to acknowledge that. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. I see Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And in packet page 13, talking about the approach to benchmarking, there's
mention of-- we have not [AUDIO OUT] benchmark of CEOs [AUDIO OUT] region for public agencies. I
don't know [AUDIO OUT] in the past [AUDIO OUT] maybe favorably, maybe more [AUDIO OUT]. Wouldn't
hurt to know information how [AUDIO OUT].
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook? We missed about 80% of what you said.
SHELLEY COOK: Well [AUDIO OUT].

VINCE BUZEK: We still can't hear you. OK. Director Cook has muted herself. So we're going to move on.
Let's see who else we have. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: We're having all sorts of issues today. I think Director Lewis and Ms. McManus were up
before I was.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Go ahead. You're good. Go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I would just say a couple of things. One, this is a perfect example of, for, at least
internal meetings, the importance of the chat on Zoom. Director Cook or others would be able to provide
that feedback in a way that is more efficient. And when we're having tech issues, this is something that they
would be able to do.
But second, I think it's important, when we're thinking about peer review and-- while evaluating other
organizations has value, I think it's also important to remember, if we're not sharing the same goals and
vision as our peers-- which, while we're all people moving people, I think we all might have slightly different
goals and ways of getting there-- then, again, the value that exists and the amount of weight that we place
on that should be taken into consideration when we're thinking about methods of the evaluation and metrics
that we're setting for that evaluation.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. Good comments. Thank you for that. I'm sorry, Director Lewis. I didn't see the
order here. So Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's all good. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I don't know if it's a question or if it's more of a
comment, but packet page 14, number 6, it says "Both RTD and Dallas are the only two agencies showing
significant growth in capital projects." And one of the things that stands out for me is that, I think, as an
agency, we are less focused on growth in terms of capital projects and maybe more of a focus on
sustainability.
But it also makes me wonder about how we are including all that is COVID and our response to COVID in
this evaluation. Because I would imagine that that would have some impact on our ability or our General
Manager's ability to deliver on some of these things that we might propose.
VINCE BUZEK: Good comments. And again, highlighting the fact that there are a lot of variables that we're
going to need to consider. Let's see. Ms. McManus, are you next? I think so.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I just wanted to bring up, last year, one of the tasks of the GMOC was to go
over all of these policies and make appropriate changes to them. And when we were in the position of hiring
a new General Manager, that went by the wayside. And so that was one of the reasons I wanted to add
them to the agenda today. Because we need to take a more current look at these.
And it's the perfect time. Because we will be moving forward in trying to figure out the strategic goals of this
agency, with Debra at the helm, moving us forward through that process this year. And I wanted this
particular group, as we're moving through that process, to be taking into account these policies and making
notes as to what we might like to see change based on our new goals and visions moving forward. Thank
you.
VINCE BUZEK: That sounds good. And it seems appropriate that we should update some of these policies
from 2010. So as we move forward, let's keep this in the top of our mind. And Ms. McManus, if there's any
chance you can get these to the members of the GOC in a Word format if anybody wants to begin redlining
and marking up documents. Or if not, just take notes on what you've got. And make sure that either I get
them or Director Sloan gets them so we can incorporate those-- or Ms. McManus-- as we move along.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. We can get those sent out to all directors in a Word form. Not a problem.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you. Am I missing anybody else? Is anybody else-- Director Dishell, do you
have more?
BOBBY DISHELL: Just really quickly, I know General Manager and CEO Johnson has been at a number
of different agencies, as have other people in our senior leadership team. And wondering if you've seen
certain frameworks that have worked well, that haven't worked well, and any input you might have on that
component of it-- or if anyone else on the call, to the extent you think it's appropriate.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Dishell. And I think, if anything, part of the strategic
involvement that we endeavor to do collectively will help us discern what the best path forward for this
organization. Recognizing this is dated back from 2010 and it's looking at the base system, and there were
conversations that ensued about peer agencies, I do have to qualify, like Director Catlin was saying, that
we do have peer agencies. But when we say peer, we have BART. BART is only a heavy rail system. That's
all they operate. But they operate it in one of the most densely populated areas in our country.
So as we go forward, it's discerning what we're trying to ascertain relative to this specific agency and the
goals that we identify. So I appreciate you saying that as well. And I do believe that this will be evergreen
as we go forward, recognizing that there's other issues that are prevalent. Because in 2010, it said that it
was just DART and RTD that were having major capital projects that are forthcoming. Right now, the agency
that is leading that charge is in Los Angeles. So recognizing that things change, we just have to be flexible
and adaptable as we go forward.
I will say, for instance, recognizing some roles that I have been in, where I've been involved in helping to
facilitate the CEO performance tool, that it is imperative that there is open dialogue to discern what the best
path forward is, recognizing that if you just identify a certain key performance indicator of which you have
leading and lagging indicators, and in some instances the CEO doesn't really have auspices over that, that
isn't necessarily a practical approach in which to utilize. And I think Director Lewis talked about extenuating
circumstances. So that's my longwinded answer to say that, basically, as we go through this process, we
will discern what might be optimal for this organization. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell, does that answer your question? Good. Thank you, General Manager
Johnson.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Buzek, you're on mute.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Thanks. Next is Goal-setting Policy. On page 16 of the packet, this is our Goal-setting
Policy from July of 2010. So there you have it. In essence, it says the first step is we have a retreat, a
facilitated retreat where we set goals. So we haven't had that yet. So we still need to do that.
But then, thereafter, the second step seems to be that the General Manager sits down after this and decides
what the tactical plan is and what the measurables will be to reach those goals. I tend to think that ought to
be something the GMOC works with the General Manager on before presenting to the full Board, just to
fulfill our function, I suppose.
Does anybody have any other comments about the Goal-setting Process Policy from 2010, another
document that we're all going to be looking at in more depth and revising? I see Director Lewis first. Go
ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The first is that we might want to take a look at the pronouns.
Because they say "him." [CHUCKLES] And now we have a woman leading this agency, and so we might
want to update the pronouns in this document. That's my first comment. [CHUCKLES]

VINCE BUZEK: What? [CHUCKLES]
SHONTEL LEWIS: [CHUCKLES] The second comment I had for this document is if it-- I don't know. And
so you, Mr. Chair, Mr. Tisdale, can tell me if this makes sense. You mentioned the Board retreat. If it's
something that we might want to update because we haven't done that yet, if we want to change the
language within here to reflect maybe where we are as an agency and where we're going in the future.
VINCE BUZEK: I guess I don't understand that last comment. Could you expand on that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. So it says in here that we are going-- hold on. Because I read this some
time ago. So forgive me-- that the Board is going to have a Board retreat and to do some goal-setting. But
it sounds like-- and maybe this is my interpretation of this, and so please correct me if I am interpreting this
incorrectly-- it sounds like that we are looking to put together a more strategic process and not just have a
one-time Board retreat, but something that's ongoing, as a Board, that we will continue to build upon and
working in partnership with a facilitator.
And if that is the case, I would say that the language in here at least causes me to believe that it's a oneand-done, essentially, and it's not an ongoing strategic process that's attached to the vision of our General
Manager, the vision, our ideas as a Board, and putting those all together to determine what's our path
forward collectively.
VINCE BUZEK: So anybody else want to weigh-- my understanding, then, Director Lewis, is that the goalsetting process is not a one-time event where we set goals for the year, but the goal-setting continues
throughout the year. I guess, just off the top of my head, some of the things that might make that problematic
is our budgeting process is dependent upon determining what the goals are and budgeting for those goals.
But I think I get what you're saying. But I believe the thinking is to still have the facilitated retreat where
goals are set. But then, throughout the rest of the year, we can continue to refine any of that or work with
the General Manager to refine those types of things. But I don't know. Anybody else have any insight or
comment on that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can I clarify? Sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: Who's first? [CHUCKLES] Who's on first? Director Lewis, you were speaking, so I'll let you
finish.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to clarify. It's also an observation as well. So I'm also pulling from that, as
being a member of the GMOC, that as a Board member, we tend to have a retreat as a Board and then we
have a retreat as with the senior leadership team. And then they go back and do something. And some of
the ideas show up and some of the ideas don't show up.
And so I guess I was maybe speaking more to what, strategically, are we hoping for in the future as we are
allowing our General Manager to build her vision for the agency. But also saying, is it necessary for us to
have a one-day retreat where it doesn't really fit into much of anything? And I don't know. It's a question.
I'm happy to hear the discussion.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. Thanks for that. Director Catlin, you were waving your hand frantically.
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't know if anybody would ever call me frantic about anything. But I understood, to
Director Lewis's point, that the reason that we were changing our process this year was to address some
of those concerns, Director Lewis, and that we, in fact, wanted to have a more strategic process. And that's
why we delayed the retreat.

But when I looked at all of these documents, they're all dated 2010. They're 11 years old. And I just looked
at them as all of us needing to take a fresh look at them. And maybe we can simplify these and revise them
collectively.
But to that end, I would ask, whether it's of Barbara McManus or whether you, Chair, when you would like
to have our comments, provided that we're given a Word document that we can edit readily or make
comments on readily. And when do we need to get those to Ms. McManus and to you and Director Sloan?
I'd like to have a deadline that we can work toward.
VINCE BUZEK: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And I would just also add on that we did, in fact, say, after last
year, that our retreat system was kind of antiquated because we would plan for the following year. And I
think with the new General Manager and meeting with her-- and I'm going to let her talk about this-- that
we're looking at things from a different perspective. And instead of having a retreat, having a strategic kind
of component where we actually work together, both as staff and Board collectively, to develop our shortterm goals, long-term goals, and then can put that to the budget as well as re-evaluate our current
committee structure.
So I'd like to yield the floor to the General Manager.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. General Manager Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I appreciate those comments. And that's why I raised
my hand, just to qualify and clarify. Recognizing that, in these documents, it does state that there is a
retreat, my approach in coming to this organization has been somewhat different in the sense that we need
to take that holistic approach collectively as we determine what the strategic direction going forward,
recognizing that there could be strategic priorities. And those would basically be the organizational pillars
for which we can utilize. And goals are extrapolated from said priorities there within. So when we are making
budgetary decisions, that they fall within the auspices of those strategic priorities, if there were five, per se.
And so you could have those.
In the sense of getting together on a recurring basis, perhaps it's annually or by annually, looking at the
goals to see if they've changed. Because recognizing, when we march forward, for all intents and purposes,
short-range planning, especially for a public agency, may take three years to bring something to fruition.
So changing the goals each time is more or less changing the rules of the game in the midst of playing the
football-- moving the football down the field.
So my perspective was, yes, we need to engage and we can revisit. But in the sense of what Director Lewis
was saying, having a retreat, per se, for the sake of having a retreat-- and not trying to cast aspersions, but
it's what I've heard in this forum here from all of you, that maybe that is not the most practical approach in
which to take.
So endeavoring that we do something collectively-- and I look at it as I, as the General Manager CEO,
being the administrator of the organization, working in tandem with you all, where we carve this out, and
then bringing in members of the senior leadership team in some form or fashion thereafter, recognizing that
I can't do everything within this organization as one person, there would be that intersectionality as we
move forward. So I hope that addresses the question. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, was that all you had right now?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, General Manager. And when I use the word, retreat, I guess I just use that
in its colloquial sense. And I guess I meant strategic planning whatever, whether it's one meeting or a series
of meetings, a process by which we set our goals and then build from there.
And I appreciate your comments, General Manager, that sometimes the goals are not attainable in a year
and they take some time. And I recall coming on to the Board and my first retreat in 2019. And I was not
happy that I was setting a goal for a year down the road and I had no say in what was going to happen the
first year on the Board. But I understand the reasons for some of that.
And as Director Lewis pointed out, sometimes the things we would say on these retreats kind of changed.
So anyway, Director Dishell, I think I see you next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. Thank you. I want to say that I think it may make more sense for us to wait until
we've gone through this first iteration of the Strategic Plan before evaluating these policies. Because from
what I'm hearing and what I understand so far, we're really changing the system and how we operate with
the new General Manager.
And so to try to rework policies based on an old system within a new system doesn't necessarily seem to
make sense to me and might not really set us up for success with this sort of different framing and different
way of working. So that would just be my-- before people spend a bunch of time redlining and doing all that,
that we might want to wait until we see-- and I can't remember when the next set of reports or whatever are
due-- not "or whatever." They're very important-- when those are coming out. But I think it makes more
sense for us to wait until that process has borne out before we try to set these policies based on goals on
a new system that we're just not there yet. It sort of seems premature to be doing this.
VINCE BUZEK: Good comments. Does anybody have any thoughts on that specific topic? Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I do. I am in agreement with Director Dishell on this one. While we were talking, I was
looking at our procedures and trying to separate the purely procedural that we could work on in the interim
before we did our goal-setting exercise and prioritization. And it's very difficult.
Plus, our timeline is even unsure right now. We don't know when we can start the process. So I'm not sure- like Director Dishell, I don't think it would be an effective use of people's time to go over these documents
word by word. And obviously they do need updating in a lot of ways. I'm in agreement with that. But until
we do the goal-setting exercise, it just doesn't seem productive.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. I see a lot of heads nodding. So Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I'm sorry if I wasn't clear when I spoke before, but that was what I meant to be
saying, is that I wanted to bring these to your attention. It was our intention in the past to make changes to
these. And right now, I wanted everybody to know what documents and policies would need to change as
we move through the strategic process.
So I agree with what Director Dishell said. And I'm sorry if I wasn't clear.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you very much. Does anybody have any problem with us holding off on the
revision of these policies until we get more into the strategic goal-setting? Everybody's good? Any
objections? Done. OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Just wanted to double-check that we don't have to adopt a motion or a resolution to
suspend these.

VINCE BUZEK: That's a good question. Because these are policies in effect. And we're already in
noncompliance with some of the policies that required the first quarter of the year. So good question. Is our
General Counsel on?
MELANIE SNYDER: Hi. Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: There she is.
MELANIE SNYDER: This is Melanie Snyder. Hi.
I think it would be a good housekeeping approach. I think you should look at taking a formal action to
suspend those or to rescind them.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Can we do motion now? Or are we going to need time and notice and all that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, I think it would be good, if you're taking formal action, to put this on another
committee meeting. We can just draft up what the actual-- the language of the motion and everything like
that, just so that we have notice. It just wasn't quoted as an action item on this agenda.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. You just gave yourself some homework.
MELANIE SNYDER: I'm happy to do it. That's why I'm here.
VINCE BUZEK: Good deal. Thank you so much, Ms. Snyder. That's great. OK. So that kind of takes care
of some of the policy-related issues. General Manager Johnson, I apologize. I see your hand is raised.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I apologize. I inadvertently did not lower it.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Any other discussion, just in general, on these policies? We've kind of decided to take
a wait-and-see thing until we get to the strategic goal-setting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Chair, if I might.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I really like suspending that. Where it says, first quarter of the year, that we will hold a
retreat, are we going to have another meeting of this committee this month so that we can rescind these
prior to us being delinquent in our first-quarter deliverable? [CHUCKLES] Just a technicality.
VINCE BUZEK: General Counsel Snyder, could you address that question.
MELANIE SNYDER: You know, I think that would be best practices. But we're going to do the best that we
can. I think this is a-- obviously we want to be able to follow our policies. But we can certainly get this on
another agenda. Yes, we would technically be out of compliance, but-PEGGY CATLIN: Also, to that point, and I appreciate that we're not going to be wasting our time until we
have the strategic planning exercise, but my suggestion, as we look with an eye toward revising these, that
we look toward simplifying them as well. That would just be my advice. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you so much for that. And to that end-- and we're probably not going to get into it
too much today, because it was an example, the Sound Transit Concept of evaluation, was just put into this
to begin the discussion. And it's a simplifying process. And I know Director Cook, I think, kind of unearthed
this.
Director Cook, are you on the line? Do you want to say anything about the Sound Transit?
SHELLEY COOK: Are you suggesting that perhaps we hold that off until we've done this? Or do you want
me to-VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I think we're going to anyway. But if there's anything you want to say while people
think about it, you can do that.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. So one thing that was striking to me was that it held in front of the Board, in that
case, or the public reviewing it, the sort of high-level strategic priorities that the performance objectives

were meant to obtain. And I several of us noted that our performance evaluation process and standards in
the past had become activity-focused. In fact, you see that on the chart, the end of the packet, the word,
activity, is reprinted four times. There's no mention of result. So I've just brought that as a possible starting
discussion point.
I thought the suggestion that, if Debra Johnson has examples to point to that she especially appreciates,
we'll be getting input from the strategic planner as well-- I mean, that was, in part, why I pulled that once I
spotted it earlier in the year, is that it kept to the fore those strategic priorities and identified the ways that
the performance measures would be characterized or quantified. So thank you, Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook.
Yeah, the activity-focused process that we used in the past, I think, is one of the things that most of us
really want to try to get away from and get into this result-oriented evaluation. I know, when the General
Manager would do his self-evaluation, it was 100 pages long because it had every meeting and activity that
he engaged in, because that was what the evaluation said was good, whether or not it was.
So anyway, if anybody wants to take a look at those, I'm sure we have those on file to take a look at the
prior evaluation forms and format that we used just to see where we're coming from. It's always good kind
of good to know as we're moving forward.
Anybody have anything else under Previous Guiding Principles for GM CEO oversight and Performance
Management before we move on? I see Director Lewis has a hand up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to make a quick comment about the Sound Transit document that was
provided to us. And I'll send this out to you all-- or I can send it to Barbara if it makes the most sense. But
there were complaints about this after-- excuse me. There were some complaints about this process with
assigning performance goals. And they ended up redoing those goals.
And so I think it's important background for us to know. And I'll send this article to each one of you. So we
might want to pull from other examples outside of Sound, just because there were some concerns there.
VINCE BUZEK: That'd be great to see. Thanks for that, Director Lewis. Anybody else? OK. We're moving
on. Coordination of Effort with Strategic Plan Development Consultant. If we can get an update on our
Facilitator search, that'd be great.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Mr Chair, if I may, what I can say-- and I'm qualifying my statements because we
are in a public session and this is an active solicitation-- so proposals were received last Wednesday, the
22nd. And right now, as we speak, the Evaluation Panel is currently assessing those proposals that have
been submitted. And there will be a Technical Committee meeting of said panelists. And a determination
will be made thereafter.
So that has yet to take place. That meeting is scheduled for March 12. And so recognizing, adhering to the
specific protocols as it relates to the blackout period, that's what I'm able to provide at this time in this public
forum. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I appreciate that. Understood. Any questions? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just didn't-VINCE BUZEK: Oh, you're done.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: That's good. No problem. Anybody have any questions that might be answer on this issue?
And they might not be. So OK, that's good.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Vince.

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, Marjorie.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I would appreciate seeing the actual form, a blank form that was used in the past.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good. Ms. McManus, can you see that everyone on the GMOC gets a copy of our
prior evaluation. I know we did it with Survey Monkey. But I think there was a hard-printed copy somewhere
too we can take a look at.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Absolutely.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks so much. Thank you, Vice Chair Sloan. Any other matters to come before this
committee?
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And I'm glad Director Tisdale's on the line, too, because Director Tisdale and
I are just putting the finishing touches on an updated document to send out that discusses the small
committee idea.
GM CEO Debra Johnson had suggested that we hold off on some of that in order to wait and see what we
arrived at at the-- I'm on foot. Sorry-- at the retreat in the way of committees, that it might be premature to
talk about what committees we'd have until we went through that process.
So our group, Doug's and mine, have looked at the outstanding issues, which include which committees
we should actually establish, and how will the chairs and committee members be selected. So I just wanted
to raise that issue as planning is underway for the retreat.
And he and I have talked about getting with Debra Johnson. So just providing that in the way of update.
And seeing if Director Tisdale has anything to add.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Cook very adequately summarized what we're doing. The
important point I would like to emphasize is that, relative to those two important points of which committees
and how they're actually constituted and led is something that we want to make a transparent, collaborative
process with the full Board, and not just come out and say, OK, well, the two of us think you should have
these committees, but rather, no, let's have everyone engage in that discussion. And General Manager
Johnson has a huge voice in that as well in terms of making it truly a functional change, one that actually
works and that can be sustained over time. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Cook, do you have anything more on that?
SHELLEY COOK: No, but great point of emphasis. Thank you, Director Tisdale.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. And this is just a proposal and a suggestion. It's going to be some length of time
before we gather enough data and compile an evaluation process. And this is actually a question for the
whole group and especially for GM CEO Johnson. In many cases, there's an interim evaluation, not waiting
even an entire year before the annual evaluation is conducted. And my question for the group is, do you
think there would be value in touching base after six months?
I don't think the data presently compiled would be helpful. So it would be much more subjective. But perhaps
posing questions to the entire Board and compiling those. If GM CEO Johnson feels that would be helpful
or not at all helpful, I'd appreciate hearing that.
VINCE BUZEK: All right, Director Lewis, you're next in the queue. Do you have any comments on the issue
that Director Sloan just raised?

SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't. And I'm happy to hear from General Manager Johnson.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. General Manager Johnson, we'll start with you, and then see if any other members
of the committee have comments.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you very much, Director Sloan. You've
heard me say this-- I pride myself on being highly communicative. And I think basically it's always important
to provide feedback. One cannot function in isolation. And so I welcome dialogue, recognizing that it is
subjective of-- we frame it in such a way, as we go forward, so as comparing apples to apples and not
apples to fish.
And so I would be amenable to the concept. And I think we could have discussions regarding that. Because
I would like to know what people are thinking. If we just wait until the end of the year and you guys say, go
kick rocks, and I had no understanding, then we weren't communicating. And so I think that's imperative.
And that's what I do with members of my team. And I've done that throughout the course of my career, from
the outset of me managing teams.
So I do feel it's important, as we go forward, recognizing that there are going to be some different elements,
I think it's important to have qualitative as well as quantitative. Because basically I'd be remiss to say this-and I'm sure we all have circumstances where there were just personality conflicts, and somebody just
didn't like somebody. And so that's when the subjective aspect comes into play that could impede one's
ability to function in a manner in which one was hired to lead.
And I'm speaking in a general sense, recognizing that that just happened to somebody in the industry of
which I know. And Director Lewis is nodding her head as well. It's just one of these things.
So those are my initial thoughts on it. So I'm amenable. So that's the bottom line-- I'm totally amenable to
it. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Does anybody else have any comments or input with regard to an informal interim
evaluation of the General Manager? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I support it. I want to make sure that we're setting our General Manager up for success.
And to her point, this did just recently happen to someone in the industry. And they were separated from
the agency without cause. And so I would really like for her and us to know what it is that we are asking her
to do so that she knows that she's meeting those goals.
That was not what my comment was, by the way. But I just wanted to say that.
VINCE BUZEK: That's fine. Just one minute. I'll get right back to you. Director Cook, do you have comments
on the interim evaluation?
SHELLEY COOK: No, I thought it was a good idea. It doesn't have to be that structured or formal, but I like
the idea of setting something up for the mid-year. Thanks, Director Sloan, for suggesting it.
VINCE BUZEK: Anything else on that topic? So I guess what we need to do is calendar that. That wouldn't
be just this committee. I mean, I would imagine the entire Board needs to be involved in that. And it'd
probably have to be an executive session. So that's probably something that we should get onto an agenda
coming up.
Director Lewis, now on to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I had a comment-- maybe a question, we'll see how this
progresses-- about the smaller-committee conversation. It was brought as an update. And I don't know if
it's appropriate to have this conversation. But as we're talking about creating a strategic plan, it begs the
question, at least for me, if that process is something that we should hold off on. Because we haven't

identified our goals. We haven't created our strategic plan. And so I would be curious as to what committees
might become of this conversation if we actually don't know where we're going quite yet because we haven't
identified our goals or our strategic plan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Chair, I absolutely agree. I think step one is getting a strategist to work
with us. And then step two is figuring out what our strategy is. And then three is developing goals and
objectives and committees that reflect that.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, Director Cook and then Director Tisdale.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I think that's exactly what we're proposing. And leaving up in the air the question
of the committees and the precise details of how they work until we've done that work at the retreat. Some
of that needs to be discussed at the retreat. But it's clear that, in the particulars, we'll need to wait for the
outcome, and as you mentioned, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, the objectives and so forth.
But anyway, I don't think there's any disagreement. In fact, that's what we're proposing more or less, is
having the work of the retreat behind us before we move ahead. But holding that in mind so that we're
having the discussion we need to at the retreat so we can move ahead later if that's what the Board
determines to do.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. Director Tisdale.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, go ahead, Director Tisdale.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Lewis, do you want to go first?
SHELLEY COOK: You might answer it. So I'll let you. [CHUCKLES]
DOUG TISDALE: Right. Thank you. Inadvertently, I might stumble upon it. Who knows?
VINCE BUZEK: [CHUCKLES]
DOUG TISDALE: I do want to emphasize, again, what Director Cook said. Yes, the idea is we have some
proposals, some structures, that we've talked about generally. The specifics of those absolutely have to be
informed in a carefully thought out, rational, planned manner, which is really the input that we got from the
General Manager Johnson when we had our meeting with her a month or so ago.
And so that's the reason that we say the specifics of this whole process are something that need to be put
on hold, as Chair Rivera-Malpiede has mentioned, until we have that facilitated discussion as to what we
really want to accomplish substantively. In the meanwhile, Director Cook and I are working on some of the
procedural aspects that we'll obtain no matter what we do. So we're talking about how would we amend the
bylaws, try to come up with some language that might facilitate that, and so forth.
But in terms of what committees, how they're formed, how they actually are selected for leadership and so
forth, that's something that the full Board will weigh in on, in a facilitated discussion during the course of the
retreat, with input from the General Manager and other appropriate members of SLT.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm reading your lips because you're on mute. So I'm guessing you said Director Lewis.
[CHUCKLES]
VINCE BUZEK: No, I didn't. Director Lewis, yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So that does make sense. I guess the question that I have, in
terms of clarity, is we've talked about the retreat. And when we say retreat, I think about that in the singular
and not in the plural. So maybe we're talking about a series of meetings or conversations that we might
have.

So this, realistically, for us to adopt new committees and new committee titles and goals, et cetera, probably
wouldn't happen realistically until 2022, once we were able to develop those goals in that Strategic Plan.
And I understanding that correctly?
VINCE BUZEK: I think you are, yeah. And I think, as we're seeing from the discussion we've had here,
2021 is going to be kind of a rebuilding year for this committee and the processes that come out of this
committee. But I think the work is so important that we need to take our time, and not rush into this, and get
it done right.
If anybody else has any other comments. Director Lewis, do you have any more to add?
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Chair, we had talked about it as a mid-year implementation. But maybe we could
say third or fourth quarter or at the end of the fourth quarter, just to leave the flexibility there. Because there
was, if you recall, very strong support for going with the smaller committees. Now, maybe that will shift as
we go through the retreat. But I would hate to preclude an earlier implementation if it becomes clear that's
what the Board wants to do.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. And I guess I wasn't commenting strictly on the discussion of smaller-committee
concept but the GMOC work more generally.
SHELLEY COOK: Got it. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I understand your comment, really, we're in the GMOC
meeting, after all, so that's what we're talking about. But in terms of the overall discussion relative to the
Committee on Committee Structure, that's something that I think Director Cook put very well-- let's not
preclude the possibility that this might be implemented sometime within 2021. It may be, realistically, that
doesn't happen until 2022, but let's not prejudge that. Let's see how it works at the retreat sessions-- I'll use
the plural-- at the retreat sessions, to come up with an approach toward this. And it may be that there is
such buy-in that it could be accomplished sometime in 2021. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: And those are good points, Director Tisdale and Director Cook. And because your ad-hoc
committee really isn't part of the GMOC, I don't think. So I think when you all decide you've got something
you want to bring to the Board, whenever that makes sense, please do.
Any other matters to come before this committee? I don't hear any. So let's make sure that-- when's our
next meeting date? It's the first Thursday of April. Do we have a date? I don't have my calendar.
BARBARA MCMANUS: The 8th.
VINCE BUZEK: April 8 at 3:00 PM. Does that work for everybody still?
JOHN MCKAY: Actually-- Barbara, this is John-- seeing it on the 1st.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's April 1.
JOHN MCKAY: April Fools. [CHUCKLES]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Mr. Chair, it's April Fool's Day.
VINCE BUZEK: That seems appropriate, Madam Chair. [CHUCKLES] OK, good, April 1.
And in the interim-- I know we're going to be in a bit of a holding pattern, but in the interim, if you all could
give some thought to any discussion items you want to bring forward this GMOC, get those to either Director
Sloan or to me so we can build the agenda for our next meeting and have some good conversation, as we
have had the last two meetings. I do appreciate all that.
Dr. Lewis, your hand is still up. Do you have anything else? You're good? OK.

If there's no other matters to come, we've got a next meeting date, we're going to adjourn. And is a motion
to adjourn?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second. Kind
VINCE BUZEK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Anybody opposed? No. We're adjourned. Thanks for being here.
And we'll see you next month.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
NICOLE CAREY: Thank you.

