April 16, 2020
Executive Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: On Tuesday, there were a great number of folks with whom Mike Meader had
met. No, it was bigger than those, five. And I was wondering this, if he might have some thoughts
about that composition.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, I think that's a great, that's a great point, First Vice
Chair. And I will have Mr. Ballard pull this together for Mr. Meader to take a look at. I think it's a
pretty good group. And I think he has met with the majority of these folks. But I think that adding
it to five members of the RTD Board will make it a different kind of conversation in terms of how
it looks to the community of being inclusive.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I completely agree but I know that he's been working with a number
of representatives of nonprofits and the homeless organizations. And I just want to-- I know that
he has put a great deal of effort into that kind of communication.
I do like the idea of a committee. But I just would appreciate his input, I think, to make sure that
we're not omitting somebody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I agree with you completely. This was my first stab at this.
I'll be revising it based on all of this stuff. I'm just letting Mr. Ballard know this right now so he
can take it back to his SLT to discuss this list of people and see who should be in there and who
should not.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, that sounds perfect.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. OK, great. Is there any other then discussion on this code
of conduct?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Let me go with Mr. Buzek first.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Lynn. Thanks, Madam Chair. So does that mean that item B, the revision
to the code of conduct will be coming off the agenda?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, it would not be. We would move it forward. But then we
would put together this ad hoc committee who then could come back like within a month or two

months and give us added recommendations that maybe we take back to them. But the code of
conduct was voted through by the committee. Mr. Ballard, do you want to chime in on that?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, thank you, Madam Chair. I think it's absolutely critical that this go
forward to the Board on Tuesday night. You know, they worked 3.5 hours-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL BALLARD: And we came out with a really good solution at the end. We have the full -the committee approved those items in the code of conduct that we need to keep our passengers
and our employees safe. And it's critical that the Board vote in favor of this on Tuesday night,
absolutely critical. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. Thanks a lot.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Treasurer Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I like the committee idea. I think that's a very good idea because I
think there's some language even in the existing code of conduct that may need to be looked at,
not just the changes. I do continue to have concerns. And reading about the lawsuits after the
meeting raised the concerns. And they really are around paragraph 35, in terms of people being
asked to leave. I think even though I put out the amendment, it still bothers me that it's sort of
vague in terms of saying applicable rules that the people not obeying applicable rules.
And the language that says it's for travel purposes only, it's just not true for all of our GD facilities.
So those things, I guess one other thing that concerns me is that the DUS service plan or whatever
it's called, the PowerPoint, is still attached to this. And it raises the suggestion that we are passing
that as part of the code of conduct. So I would much prefer to see the tabled for a month and see if
we could work the language.
And I do, you know, I totally sympathize with the problem. Another way to do it would be to have
it sunset. Like you raised that that suggestion, Angie. And I think it was a good one, it's just kind
of there were so many things going on. So those are my concerns.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair? Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Peggy Catlin. And this has to do with probably a point of order. Is there
an opportunity to offer an amendment prior to Tuesday that might change language in paragraph
35?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I need I need--

BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Please, Mrs. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So a recommendation for an amendment can come from this committee
and be moved forward to the Board meeting for consideration on Tuesday. That is, you could make
the recommendation right now and move it forward. But it hasn't been popular with other Board
members in the past since this has already passed 11 to 4. So
I would suggest that if we want some language changed, and the Chair and I talked this morning
about perhaps changing the six months to three months, and in that time, that committee would do
its work and bring something new forward. But I would suggest that a recommendation from this
committee move forward and the full Board consider that recommendation in the Board meeting
on Tuesday evening.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And that sort of-- that kind of-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: That answers my question. But I know that there was some concern about the
absolute language, like the word only, and then the travel purposes. I think there was some concern
about that language being subject to interpretations. And Director Guissinger might correct me.
But if there were an opportunity to maybe remove the word only, and then another one of those
statements that just allows a little more flexibility for some of the variety of properties that we
have, I'm just suggesting that might be a way to go rather than tabling it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Really, with all due respect, the entire Board spent five
hours on paragraph 35 on Tuesday night. And after five hours, they came up with this amendment
that was voted 11 to 4. What I would like to suggest is that we move forward with what we have
with the addition of developing an ad hoc committee that would bring back recommendations in
three months to the Board to revisit the code of conduct to develop whether we need to change
verbiage or do whatever.
But I think it's really crucial that we move forward, particularly since we did have such an in-depth
and robust debate and discussion on Tuesday night.
PEGGY CATLIN: Fair enough. I was just exploring it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, sure. I'd prefer it to be tabled, too. But that's sort of like the
sunset review that we were talking about. So and it has the benefit of the other viewpoints pulled
in, too. So I'm good with just three months.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam, Madam Chair?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Mr. Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I agree with you that we spent a lot of time going over this on Tuesday.
And it wouldn't seem appropriate for the Executive Committee to take that 5 hours of debate and
then change everything that was said or change anything, actually, that was discussed in that
meeting. So I think we should move it forward as is.
I guess I'm confused about the six months, three months. And does that have to do with the ad hoc
committee reporting? Is that what the timeline is about?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McManus, can you read the recommended action on that
again?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, hold on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Because you're right, Secretary Buzek. We went through so many
renditions that at some point, you're forgetting which one it was.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, Paul Ballard. May I offer-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, yes, Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: --a point while Barbara's looking that up. The the PowerPoint in question was
attached to this document in error. That has been withdrawn from being a part of the discussion by
staff.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, sir.
PAUL BALLARD: And on my agenda for today's meeting, we still have the old recommended
action printout. And I know there was discussion about-- I think Lynn's initial amendment
contained a review in six months. But that one didn't get approved. Another version did get
approved, though.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's correct. So Ms. McManus is looking it up to read it to us.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll just ask this question, Madam Chair, while Barbara's looking it up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course.
LYNN GUISSINGER: But will we be adding language into the recommended action that creates
your committee? It doesn't have to name everybody, but is that what you're suggesting, that we put
that in here or something? Or are you just going to do that separately? Or how will we do that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would like to do that separately as a point to let people know
how we want to move forward.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think the second one did get dropped away, if that's helpful. Barbara, I
think that's what Vince was saying. That was my motion. It was defeated, then came up with a
better motion. And we went with that, where there's a 14-day review.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. Not better, just different.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, you're still a lawyer.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, so are you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So, are we good with this?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm going to read it in the red lined version. Remaining at a facility after
asking to the league to leave, RTD may in its full discretion regulate the movement of individuals
to enable the provision of transit services. Facilities are being used only for travel-related purposes,
except when a permit is otherwise granted so that passengers can utilize the transit system in a safe
and efficient manner without inconvenience delay. Does that sound correct?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: It doesn't because it doesn't reflect Lynn Guissinger's ammendment that did
pass.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's right. Thank you, Shelley. I forgot about that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Let me, let me go back.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So it was something like remaining at a facility after being asked to leave
for violation of this code or other applicable rule.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. And the-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. That was the one that passed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.

PEGGY CATLIN: I got one in there.
VINCE BUZEK: --was about the language and the recommended action.
PEGGY CATLIN: For a violation of this code and other applicable rules.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Or other applicable rule, yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: So that would be additional.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That goes at the end of that first sentence, remaining at a facility after being
asked to leave but not a sentence there.
PEGGY CATLIN: Remaining at a facility after being asked to leave, for violation of this code or
other applicable rule. RTD may, and then, but it stayed the same.
VINCE BUZEK: It did.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So we're good with that?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is in the recommended action. Yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. My question had to do with the language of the recommended action.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Would you bring up this committee in other matters or new business?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I will.
LYNN GUISSINGER: In new business? OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: May I suggest, Angie, that maybe you bring it up when you're first
introducing this recommended action? Because I think that would put people's mind at ease and
help with the press on this. It's just a thought.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yeah. No, when we're actually doing the meeting, yes, I will
talk about this recommended action and then talk about the formation of the ad hoc committee.
And hopefully by Tuesday I will have had everybody commit to it.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
PEGGY CATLIN: So, Madam Chair, that was the reason for my question. I just didn't know in
what order you were going to talk about this. And I agree with Director Guissinger that it would
be appropriate to preface the discussion about the Board action with that plan. Because I think it
would make people more comfortable with it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. I agree. Absolutely agree. OK.
SHELLEY COOK: So, Madam Chair, could I even suggest going a little bit farther and maybe
having some kind of a memo or a little bit fuller explanation going out before the item.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I agree with you, Second Vice Chair Cook. i think that the
more information we can send out with the packet, the better. And hopefully I'll be working today
on trying to formulate this ad hoc committee and we'll be sending something around to all of you
to let you see it, to get your input.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So are we OK with this then? We can move on to the rest of
the agenda review to move it forward?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm fine.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'd like to still hear the recommended action with Vincent with the memo
we had since we don't have it in front of us.
VINCE BUZEK: You know, I've got it. Tai-Shrae sent me something to look at and I do have it
here. If you all want me to read it, I'm happy to do that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please do.
VINCE BUZEK: It is recommended that the Board adopt the attached revised code of conduct as
amended and authorize the GM/CEO to revise the code of conduct in the future, but only in the
event of a declared state or national emergency. Any changes made by the GM/CEO must be
ratified by the Board within 14 days. That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's correct. Yep.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I had one last question, if I may for Paul Ballard. Am I right that the
concern that Director Menton raised and others about the First Amendment zones would take out
the DUS material. That's not an issue in the code of conduct. Is that right?

PAUL BALLARD: That is correct. It is not an issue in this code.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And that's not something that's going to be added later. I mean, that's going
to be separate with whenever we consider the union station materials. Is that the plan?
PAUL BALLARD: That would be at a future date. And for the record, the free speech term was
improperly inserted in there. And the attempt by staff was to talk about where we create a public
forum and where we do not create a public forum. Free speech should never have been listed in
there. That was a mistake.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Great. All right. Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Actually, apologize for the Board because that contributed to, that one line
contributed to a lot of the discussion, which never should have been required. And so I am sorry
about that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Probably be a good thing to let Natalie know, I guess.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. I will.
LYNN GUISSINGER: In advance. OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. So can I call to see if we can approve the April
Board meeting agenda?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I have a movement of First Vice Chair Catlin and a second
by Treasure Guissinger. All in favor?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Any opposed? Any discussion? OK. It's approved. Do
we, Ms. McManus or Mr. Bell, do we not have any retiree awards this year? I mean this month?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. None were brought forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I wondered about that. OK. Under other matters, I have, I'm
going to ask Ms. McManus to speak first and then I have one and then I think Second Vice Chair
Cook has one. So Ms. McManus.

BARBARA MCMANUS: One of my points Paul already spoke to, that the PowerPoint was not
going to be in the packet going forward. I would also like to remind everybody that Telephone
Town Hall will be starting tonight. Staff will make a statement that we are moving forward with a
search firm to find a permanent general manager but we're asking that the directors not have any
discussion on that as the committee has not has not met yet with the outside search firm.
And we don't really know how best we're going to move forward with COVID 19 and what the
public outreach may look like. So we don't really, we're asking that the directors not have that
much discussion because we don't want it to come out that any promises or statements were made
as to what the public outreach might look like since we don't know.
SPEAKER: Barbara? If I might, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SPEAKER: To that point, I had planned to call you this afternoon to set up the next meeting and
talk about the agenda.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. So we're hoping that's going to be next Thursday. You were on
my list to call this afternoon as well.
SPEAKER: OK. We can have that conversation offline. That's fine.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Great. Then Director Cook, you had sent something out regarding
wanting to have the discussion about having smaller committee meetings. Is there something that
you would like to speak to in regards to what we sent out, my apologies to the full Board in this
executive committee meeting, as far as your recommendation?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry. If I might, Second Vice Chair Cook, I spent a lot of time
reading your stuff. Would you mind if I said something? Because I was doing a lot of homework
reading your stuff and trying to figure out how we move forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, well here's what I'm learning. I'm learning that in order to go
to a smaller committee, it would take a bylaw change. That's the first thing. But I'm wondering if
we could do something a little bit different in the interim if we do want to go back and do a bylaw
change and instead institute a couple of things.
The first one is that as issues are coming forward, just like the code of conduct or, I don't know,
something financial or reimagined RGD, that we put together an ad hoc committee of Board
members who would really delve into that issue and then bring that concentrated idea or body of
work back to the Board so that it's not a full blown discussion amongst 15 Board members who
have not had the chance to really delve into the questions and come up with a plan of action.

And then that way we could get that intense information, expertise from a body of members of the
Board who could really look at that issue. But then at the same time, what I'd like to do is institute
a Robert's Rule of Order, which would be a limit on debate. Because I think that 15 Board members
asking three questions each is like 150 minutes. So that's 2 and 1/2 hours.
So if we could really delve into what we could look at to streamline our information and be able
to get our questions answered, might be advantageous for not just the Board of Directors but for
the community listening in and for the staff who could respond and give us detailed information
that would be helpful. So I'll just lay that out on the table and then I will pass it to you, Second
Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So I want to make sure I understand what you're saying. You're suggesting
we form an ad hoc committee to consider changes to our bylaws that might incorporate the smaller
committee idea plus some more broad application of limiting debate in our meetings? It would
take up both those issues? Are you discussing two different committees? Or I'm not clear on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So what I am discussing is I want to put together an ad hoc
committee on the code of conduct. Then we would also identify additional ad hoc committees for
different areas of interest for the Board. But at the same time, we would be looking at how to
institute a limit of debate through Robert's Rule of Order so that we can shorten our Board meeting.
So it is two separate things.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So as regards the small committee, I love that idea. My purpose, and I
was hoping to get it sent to the executive committee mainly to start a conversation to begin
thinking, but you've taken it a step farther to propose a process for considering it. So I like that a
lot. Under Robert's Rules, here's where I come from.
I think that in a time of crisis in particular, you want to be sure you're hearing all voices, even those
that are brought forward in a way that is difficult. And by the same token, this is where I would be
concerned about how we manage this. You also want to make sure that all individuals have a
chance to be heard so that you don't have a few voices that are crowding out the remaining. But
I'm a little bit worried about forming a committee specifically to address a limiting of debate right
now. If we want-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, it wouldn't be a committee. What I want to do is take a deep
look at Robert's Rules of Order to see if I can implement a limited debate rule to be instituted so
that it is a smoother transition. So you're exactly correct, that everybody has the opportunity to
speak and that we limit it so we're not there all night for five hours, that we really have the ability
to research what it is that we need to ask and get it done in an efficient manner.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I'm still hearing we're going to be talking about how to limit debate.
And I worry about that framing. And so I want to think. I think we ought to think more about that
piece. It's an important question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.

SHELLEY COOK: So that's, I guess, what I'd say there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I really appreciate that. I am asking for an official opinion
from our attorney. And I am reading the Robert's Rule of Order book. So I'm trying to figure this
out. And it is under the limited debate section. So I'm willing to listen to everything. But I do think
we need to institute something. Madam Secretary, do you-- yes?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I agree with what your intent is. And the purpose
of Robert's Rules of Order is to promote debate, not to cut off debate.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right.
VINCE BUZEK: But as Shelley Cook, Second Vice Chair Cook said, when you have one or two
members of a body who monopolize discussion, then it does crowd out others. I mean, I could
have asked two questions Tuesday night, too, but I didn't want to extend that meeting any further.
So people tend not to engage in debate when someone else has sucked all the air out of the room
and used all the time. It is kind of unfortunate that Robert called the motion a motion to limit
debate, because the intent of that motion is to actually further Robert's Rules to promote debate,
but to ensure that everyone has an equal access to that debate. So I'm in favor of you looking at
that. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Anybody else?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Peggy Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree with Director Cook and Director Buzek. There has to be a balance. And
as Director Buzek mentioned, he would have liked to have made comment, but he did not want to
protract that debate. I've felt the same way. I have some things I would have liked to have said, but
that made our-- it just didn't seem to be a good use of time. So good luck with that researching
your-- to try and find a delicate balance in that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Thank you. Anybody else?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. Madam Chair, this is Lynn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. This is a tough issue and it's been made worse by the remote
meetings. Because it's hard to do and you have to really plan in advance. If I was going to say,
Vince, what's your amendment? Oh, that's a good one. I won't make mine. But that was part of
what happened the other night was just that we're not able to talk one on one.

And I know right now in this world of Twitter and everything else, there would be issues with
doing something that limits debate. But at the same time I recognize what others are saying that in
some ways promotes debate. I wonder, and I've been trying to figure out how we deal with this in
terms of the remote liaison things.
I wonder about just a quick small committee to look at this to help decide. Maybe it's not limited
to three questions but maybe there's an overall time through the meeting for each director. Or there
might be other ways of doing it. I don't know if that's of interest at all to help you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Treasurer Guissinger, I really am happy that you said that. I
think that that is absolutely correct. I don't want to be making this decision alone. I think this is an
executive committee decision and discussion that should be had. And I'm wondering if we should
do a little side committee to discuss this in depth and figure out how we want to move together on
this. I have asked Ms. Ross-Amato to research about limited debate or what is it that we need to
look at to do this. So I'm very happy to do that. And I would be pleased if this committee would
consider joining me in looking at this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's great. I agree that there are other options-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --to help us get through this time where we're talking remote and all of
that. I don't think we want to be seen as squashing voices.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't want to squash voices.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't want to squash voices but we are the leadership of the
Board and we need to get some control over how these remote meetings are being implemented.
This is a whole new time for everybody and I think the protocols have changed drastically. The
world has changed drastically. But I think it is our responsibility to hone it in now. Go, OK, we've
had, what? Three or four meetings so far remotely. And it's starting to, things are coming up that
we should address this. And I think this is one area that we should be addressing together.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I agree. And I'd be happy to help out in any way. And I think just as I
indicated before, what stifles debate is when one or two Board members monopolize that debate.
And what promotes debate is when everyone has an equal amount of time and equal access to that
debate. So I'd be happy to help you look at some things.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so very much. Ms. McManus? OK. Thank you. And
Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Ms. McManus, could I ask you to put together a call for us to
meet with Ms. Ross-Amato to discuss this issue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. So you want this to be a public meeting?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, how can we-BARBARA MCMANUS: I mean, I just want to add that not only are we kicking off the GM/OC
executive search committee, in the meeting alone we've added three separate ad hoc committees
and I just worry a little bit, not only about the bandwidth of my team, but the bandwidth of the
directors and this becoming more a full time position for them in the commitment with three
additional ad hoc committees. And that we have to be careful who we choose and how we choose
with availability of directors and how we move forward.
That being said, if we could have two directors meet with myself and Jennifer Ross-Amato and
bring forward the information that we get for discussion, I can forward that out to the rest of the
executive committee and we can get some opinions back and forth in conversations with me. And
then I can put together what the overall feeling of the group is and we can bring it forward that
way. I'm happy to hear any other ideas of how we best move this forward. But I just wanted to
throw that out there because we do, we have directors that still work. And this is a big commitment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Any other comments?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, this is Shelley.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: No, truthfully, I would be fine with a five member committee just having call
ins that are posted. I would be fine with that. Just for what it's worth rather than restricting it to
two so that other people don't have as immediate access to it.
VINCE BUZEK: I agree.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree. Thank you, though, Ms. McManus.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, what do you-- I want to be clear about what immediate access is because
it's a public meeting but we still have to record it and we have to present minute for it. It can't just
be a quick call.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any comments on that?

SHELLEY COOK: So just to clarify, is it in our bylaws, Barbara, that any meeting of an ad hoc
or other committee has to have minutes in addition to the-- and do the minutes have to be verbatim
as we've been doing? Or can they be a summary of main points and discussion and actions
recommended or something?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we do both. And actually, there is a portion of that in the bylaws.
But that actually is dictated through the RTD Act.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, no, not that it would not be public or subject to open meetings or quora.
But that the verbatim transcript would be very elaborate, and laudable effort we make to provide
the tape, we can do the taping, but then provide a verbatim transcript. Can we do minutes in a way
that's more summary instead of that detailed?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well we do both right now. So it would be the same.
SHELLEY COOK: Does it have to be the same? I guess is my question.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I mean, that would be a Board decision on public transparency.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Everybody can listen in. The tape would be there. But do you have to
make that extra effort to do a verbatim transcript? But yes, I get it. We also respond and we make
that available for people, for example, who maybe are hearing impaired. So I don't know. I take
your point. I guess that's all I'll say.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Anybody else?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I like the idea of a meeting with all of us if we can work it out to make the
minutes, if we have another audio recording and can just save the work of the minutes, I would
agree with doing that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If we do have a meeting of the whole, it does have to be posted
and it is a public meeting.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm good with that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry. Could you repeat that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I said if we do a meeting of the whole executive committee to do
this, then it needs to be posted 24 hours in advance and would be a public meeting. Are you good
with that?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Guissinger?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I have mixed feelings. But yes, I think that's OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN; I agree with Lynn. I have mixed feelings because I really hate to further burden
our Board office staff, but in the interest of transparency, I think it might be a good idea to have
all five.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Well, I would have to agree, as well. So Ms. McManus, as
much as we hate to put any more work on our staff, I really think that this is an important issue
that we need to have move forward and take a look at together.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we're here to do whatever is needed. I just wanted to make sure
that everybody was understanding the scope.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. OK. All right. So I guess the next thing would be to develop
a date of when we would like to meet. And I will be speaking with Ms. Ross-Amato tomorrow and
wondering if you all would be available if we send out a list of-- is there a date that you were not
available to meet? If you could start sending that to me of when you are available so I can help
streamline that meeting and get it out as soon as possible.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm just home all the time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Really?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll wash my hair.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm fine with any time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. And Director Cook, you're teaching, right?
SHELLEY COOK: Teaching on Tuesday and Thursday online from 1:45 to 2:30. That's really my
only fixed commitment right now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry, could you repeat that again?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: When are you available?
VINCE BUZEK: About 11:55 PM tonight. I think that would be good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Very nice.
VINCE BUZEK: Did we pick-- has anybody suggested dates?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, we haven't. We're just trying to figure out when people are
available. So today is Thursday. Are you all available maybe on Monday at 1:30?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hang on. Let me look.
VINCE BUZEK: Works for Buzek. Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Let me look.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That works for me.
SHELLEY COOK: And I have my Telephone Town Hall that night, but otherwise I'm fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: That should work.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So I'm going to call the meeting for Monday at 1:30,
which will be April 20th.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, yeah. I've got a meeting that day that isn't in my calendar yet, but I
think it's not at 1:30. I'll look at that while we continue talking.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. That's all I have. Does anybody else have anything else?
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, sir?
VINCE BUZEK: Yep. I want to thank Madam Chair and Mr. Ballard for that op ed piece in the
Denver Post. It was very well done and I appreciate you all doing that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I second that. That was really good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: I second that and I also liked the letter yesterday asking the governor for help
with math. And I would just mention that I thought you did a really nice job yesterday, Paul, talking
to Matt Gray and Faith Winter. And for other people, they're still talking about bringing the bill,
not the bill, but some sort of accountability committee back.
It's hard to know. That's the piece that carries the big fiscal note. So I think there's a lot to get
through between here and there. But I thought you did a nice job of pointing out that we're being
audited right now. That maybe we should get that. And just answering their questions yesterday.

PAUL BALLARD: Well, thank you. And thank you for all the comments. All of these are team
efforts that multiple people are supporting. But I appreciate the kind words.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. They just concluded the APT Board of Directors CDC
webinar with Dr. Bradley King and Dr. Amy Kirby. There were a couple of takeaways that I could
share. I can do that at this time. Or if you would prefer, I could do an email relative to some of
these points.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, if you don't mind sending an email, I'd like to have it so that
I could take a look at it more in depth. I want to thank you for sitting in and listening on our behalf.
DOUG TISDALE: Absolutely. More than happy to. And the program was such that I was not able
to submit the question that you had requested specifically. But it was in effect answered and I will
give you that information in the email that I'll put together summarizing the call. And the call was
recorded. I don't know how quickly it will be available for people to access because I know that
the directors will want to hear it directly and not simply rely upon my summary. But we can
provide both to the directors.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Anything else?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I apologize. I do have a meeting with some of the local officials here
from 1:00 to 2:00 on Monday. Oh, no. Wait a minutes. It's Tuesday. I'm fine on Monday at 1:30.
Sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So Monday, April 20th, at 1:30, we will have this
meeting.
SHELLEY COOK: Great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. And we'll send the e-vite and ask Ms. Rasomato if she
can join us as well.
SHELLEY COOK: That'd be great.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair, what are we calling this meeting? As we have to build it in our
software.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh my gosh. Let's see. Oh. I guess I would call it meeting
structure. What do you guys think? Committee meeting-- no. I don't know what to call it.
SHELLEY COOK: Either promoting discussions or managing remote meetings or-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ah. Managing remote meetings.
VINCE BUZEK: Perfect.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: On my calendar, I put managing meetings. But I put meeting protocol. Remote
meeting protocol. That's what I put.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So I guess my-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I guess my question is are the protocols not going to hold when we're
not having remote meetings? Because that's another question. I don't I don' know if we should have
such a narrow scope.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The only way that I know how to think about that is could it be an
implementation of remote meeting protocol during COVID? And then once we get back to, if we
ever get back to normalcy, that it would be called, we would revisit it. Does that make sense?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Are you asking-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
VINCE BUZEK: If that's what you want. Obviously, I think what Barbara was saying, we could
take the word remote out and ultimately we may want to continue to do this during regular
meetings. Or we can wait and see if it's an issue. I don't care.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'd like that. But we would just call it remote meeting
protocol, correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we'd take the remote out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Just meeting protocol.

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I think.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. Got it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Anything else for the good of the executive
committee meeting?
VINCE BUZEK: What am I going to do with the next 11 and 1/2 hours?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You can listen in to my town hall meeting tonight.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh. Lovely.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
VINCE BUZEK: All right. Sounds good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Ms. McManus, did you say something?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just said anytime you guys want to jump in, I can help you fill those
hours.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, no kidding. Me, too. All right. Seeing none, thank you so
much for the call. And I'll be talking to you before Tuesday, I'm sure, but for sure on Tuesday.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The meeting's adjourned. It is 12:30 PM.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.

