2025-01-15
Operations, Safety, & Security Committee
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Perfect. All right. Let me get myself situated. All right. This is the
Wednesday, January 15, Operation, Security, and Safety Committee. I will now call to order. We are
convened as of 5:33 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless
you're recognized to speak.
Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we're providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access the service should send an email to the RTD Board office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can
automatically be translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access for live transcript of this
meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I am here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Apologies for this, but for the record, may I have, Mr. Kroll, can you also let me know
any other Directors who are present but that are not part of this committee?
JACK KROLL: Yes, happy to. I see Director Catlin is here and I believe Director Benker is also here. I
don't think I've missed anyone, but please forgive me-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Guzman.
JACK KROLL: Oh, Director Guzman is here. Thank you, sir.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. So, for the record, Director Guzman,
Director Benker, and Director Catlin are present as well. Thank you three for joining us.
So the first item on the agenda this evening is the selection of the Committee Chair and Vice Chair. As
the Board Chair, I'll facilitate the election and, once both seats are filled, turn over the meeting to the new
Committee Chair. Unlike the Executive Committee election process, which uses secret ballots for the
election of Board officers, for committee leadership appointments, we will proceed with open nominations,
discussion, and vote by the full committee.
We will begin with the selection of Chair and then Vice Chair. We will allow up to three minutes for those
Board members who nominate a candidate, those seconding nominations, if any, and any other members
who wish to speak regarding the candidates to speak. I will then call for a vote, and the candidate with the
most votes will be appointed. If only one Director is nominated, the committee may proceed by
acclamation and that Director will be appointed.
With that being said, I'll start by asking nominations for Committee Chair. I see Director Harwick's hand
up.
IAN HARWICK: I'd like to nominate Director Ruscha as chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Director Harwick, would you like to say any words in regards to your
nomination?
IAN HARWICK: I do. Speaking, just using JoyAnn's first name, I respect her so much. She is one of the
smartest people that I've ever met. She knows this committee backwards and forwards, knows probably
more about it than probably-- may have already forgotten more or less than most people will ever know.
I'm getting that wrong.
But anyway, just I think she's extremely qualified for this, and she put in her time to receive this leadership
role, and just really proud to nominate her as chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Perfect. Thank you very much, Mr. Harwick, for the kind words for Director
Ruscha. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes, I too would like to nominate JoyAnn Ruscha from District B as Chairman
of the OSS Committee. I've enjoyed getting to know her, not only in her capacity as an RTD Director, but
really, truly, as a friend. She will bring experience to the OSS while allowing the discussion of fresh ideas
to the complex issues that we face on this committee. So I nominate her as well.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Director Chandler. I now see Director Paglieri's hand
in the queue.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes, thank you, Chair Bouquet. I'd like to say a few brief words in support of Director
Ruscha. I believe Director Ruscha has shown themselves to be passionate about RTD, and has
committed themselves to be a facilitator and see each of us as equal members of the committee. They
are full of good ideas and reminders to follow decorum, and I look forward to working with them, learning
from them, and collaborating as a group to let each of our areas of expertise shine. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Director, for the words. I see Director Nicholson's
hand.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, thank you, Chair Bouquet. I wanted to just echo much of what has already
been said and just add that, for me at least, it's Director Ruscha's passion and compassion for the work
that we do and for the other people in this organization and especially the folks who depend on RTD and
have their lives affected when we do well and when we do poorly. That, I think, gives her the strength
necessary to lead this committee and make real critical change. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Nicholson. At this time, are there any other nominees
for Chair of the committee? I'm seeing no other hands. I do want to respect the process we have done
with the other standing committees, and that is, Director Ruscha, do you have any words?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I would be very embarrassed if I made an ugly cry face. That was very touching and I
thank you. Thank you. It's a privilege to serve. Chairs serve committees, not the other way around. And
I'm really excited and honored. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. So with that being said, with only Director
Ruscha having been nominated as Committee Chair, I'll ask if anyone is opposed to appointing Director
Ruscha to the position of Committee Chair by acclamation? OK, I'm seeing no hands and I'm hearing no
voices. Congratulations, Committee Chair Ruscha. Congratulations. Excellent.
All right, moving along. I'll now ask for nominations for Committee Vice Chair. Are there any nominations
for Committee Vice Chair? Ah, yes, Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes. I would like to nominate Brett Paglieri as Vice Chairman of the Operations,
Safety, and Security Committee. I've enjoyed getting to know Brett. His commitment to RTD and his
excellent customer service skills are a perfect match as we work to improve RTD. He would bring a fresh
perspective to security issues, a perspective that is customer-centric, and I hope you will join me in
supporting Director Paglieri as the Vice Chairman of OSS.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Chandler. Are there any other hands in the queue or
any other nominees for Vice Chair of the committee? Yes, I see Director Paglieri's hand up next.
BRETT PAGLIERI: If it's allowed, Chair Bouquet, may I say some things, or would you like to get other
nominations before that?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Your discretion, Director. Paglieri. I'll leave it up to you. I do see some other hands
that popped in afterwards, so I'm happy to save you for later, or if you'd like to speak now based on your
nomination, I'm happy to go either way.

BRETT PAGLIERI: I'll speak now, thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent.
BRETT PAGLIERI: I would like to briefly recap why I ran for the Vice Chair position, and will be the best fit
for the role. I campaigned on improving the rider experience because I am a regular rider who has seen
and felt the safety and security issues that impact our system.
I bring many years of customer experience and knowledge of transit systems earned through advocacy
and ridership. I have high ambition and look forward to setting and achieving ambitious metrics and
improving the rider experience. We must be laser-focused on improving the rider experience as all eyes
and a voter mandate are on us to do so. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Paglieri, for the words. I now see Director Buzek's
hand in the queue.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. At this time, I would like to nominate Ian Harwick for the position of
Vice Chair of this committee. Much like Director Ruscha, he has served admirably on the committee, has
brought forth a number of great ideas and a number of great projects that the Board has adopted. I think
he's well poised to serve this committee in this capacity. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Buzek. So I have Director Harwick and now-- and
Director Paglieri as nominees for Vice Chair, and I do see Director Ruscha's hand up next.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would also like to-- nominations don't need seconds, but I
also want to say a couple of things about both of our Vice Chair nominees, if that is permissible to the
Chair?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Of course.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. So what I really love about Director-- and I have to make sure I say
this right, and I practiced-- Paglieri. Is that correct?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes, thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And thank you for getting my pronouns correct-- that he brings this energy and this
vision. And I am the kind of person who likes it when folks just have big ideas. Because if you think about
it, that's where innovation comes from in the public sector, in the private sector, and that's also a key
leadership quality when we think about long-term planning.
And so, I have been inspired by his energy. He's also very humble and comes in as a team player. And I
have said this to Brett, personally, I am so excited you're here, and I really mean it. And I'm excited that
everyone is here.
For the other candidate, Director Harwick, Director Harwick and I have worked together on projects. We
came in together as brand new Directors. We were still under a COVID mandate. We got along really well
and struggled and figured it out together.
And as you guys know, we drove the Vision Zero Project along with Director Guzman. And in that space,
because we didn't have work plans yet, [LAUGHS] we function like Co-Chairs and partners, and we

brought out the best of each other and, I think, really pushed each other as well. That was a 14-monthlong project, and I just so appreciate the way, Ian, how you also bring out the best in people, and you're
positive, and you are intently listening.
And if it's OK, I just want to share a little-- a quick story here because not everyone is aware of the
background. So I am hearing impaired, pretty severely hearing impaired at this point. And when-- my first
year, I didn't have accommodations, and I was on the struggle bus. And Ian, first, I would be texting him
and then we kind of switched some seats. But Ian would tell me what was going on and would encourage
me when I was scared to speak because I wasn't sure if I heard words correctly or if my voice was
changing.
And Ian sits next to me right now, and you guys might see us in the back, and maybe we look like two
ADHD kids who just can't pay attention. But often Director Harwick has been my interpreter because
sometimes CART doesn't work, or before Mr. Kroll outfitted me with the power strip, the machine would
die, or I just couldn't read lips and catch the words at the same time. And I would be nervous, and I would
ask Director Harwick, who was also trying to pay attention, did we say this or that? What's going on?
And never not once did he ever get frustrated, did he ever say, I'm trying to pay attention, or, no. He
helped provide access in the times where it wasn't working. And he also, again, was encouraging when I
got nervous about it. And that is-- that's a friend. That's a friend, just like Kathleen is a friend. And if you
don't know Kathleen, you don't know your friend yet. [LAUGHS]
And I don't want to get too babbly. But I really, genuinely love every person who is part of this committee.
And I'm honored that you have chosen me to help lead. And I would be honored to work with either
candidate for Vice Chair.
I did also recruit Ian for this role weeks ago, because I wasn't sure if I could do it without him for some of
the reasons I just outlined. And he is a person of honor, a person of his word, as is Brett.
And I just wanted to express that whatever happens in the next few minutes, it's not about being antianything. We're all in the same team. And everybody here has a seat at the table. We've got a lot to do,
and we cannot do it if we're not functioning like an actual team. So with that, before Buzek calls the
question, I'll yield, and we'll go ahead and take a vote. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Well, before we do take a vote-- thank you for your words, Director Ruscha-- I do see
Director Benker's hand is up. Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes. Thank you for recognizing me. I just, first of all, I think you do have two really
good candidates, and they both bring some wonderful skill sets to the committee. I am speaking to
encourage you to support Director Paglieri. I have been so impressed with his enthusiasm, his
knowledge, his work ethic, how quickly he picks things up. He is a very positive person that can help
lighten the load. I think of many of the staffers and the Board, and he gets right to the crux of an issue,
which I like. He speaks directly to it.
He volunteers. He loves trains so much, [LAUGHS] he actually volunteers for the ski train that's going up
to Winter Park, which I was impressed with, to take up so much of his time volunteering for something
that is going to be helpful for ridership across Colorado with regard to train ridership.
And I do believe he has the passion and the skill set to take us forward. I know we've had a couple of
conversations about how can we increase ridership, which I think is something that all of us are

concerned with, and he's got a lot of really good ideas. So I would just like to go ahead, and even though
I'm not on your committee, I just believe that Director Paglieri would be a superb choice for you. So thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Benker for, one, joining us tonight and saying some
words. I do see Director Nicholson's hand raised. Director Harwick, since you were nominated as well,
Director Paglieri did get a chance to speak on his own behalf. I am curious if you would like to speak prior
to Director Nicholson, or would you like to speak afterwards, or not speak at all, sir.
IAN HARWICK: [LAUGHS] I'm happy to let Director Nicholson go first.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Director Nicholson, you're recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. I just wanted to say briefly that I deeply appreciate the
service of both of these candidates, both the work that Director Bouquet-- sorry, the work that Director
Harwick has done on the Board over the last two years and his commitment, as well as the work that I
have seen from my very good friend, Director Paglieri, and his commitment to these issues.
Brett, as we all know, is young. He is the youngest member of the Board. In fact, I believe he's the
youngest member of the RTD Board ever or near close to it. Sorry, Julien. But that ambition and drive to
fix this transit system for both people his age and for folks who are much, much older, I think, is
something that we should take seriously.
I have seen Brett show up over, and over, and over again in his calm, measured, thoughtful manner. He
is humble to a fault, sometimes, I would say, and I think one thing we've seen across multiple committee
memberships through the previous committees has been a sense of balance and complementary skill
sets, bringing a greater effectiveness to each of the committees on executive, on finance, on
performance.
And so, I think, one thing that Brett brings here, I think, would be some of that balance. I think he could be
a real asset and an opportunity-- someone who can learn so that we're prepared going forward to have
individuals who are ready to lead in the years to come. So I'd strongly encourage you all to support
Director Paglieri. I think he would be a phenomenal Vice Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Nicholson. And Director Harwick, I'll have you speak
after Director Whitmore, unless you want to go ahead. But I recognize Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good evening, everyone. This process is political and it's
difficult in the personal side of things. I just want to say, I have had several conversations, including this
afternoon, with Director Paglieri, and he's a fine individual with a ton to offer-- already has-- and I am
going to enjoy watching in my next two years his development, because he is starting far ahead of a
person like I did seven years ago with his knowledge, and I acknowledge that.
I would just say for everybody that has ran and not been successful for a leadership position, hang in
there. There's plenty, plenty to do. We all know what's coming, and we have a mandate from within, a
mandate from the outside to continue to improve this organization. And certainly Brett's going to be a
person that will be a great contributor to that situation.
But I will be supporting Director Harwick for Vice Chair. Director Harwick has been a grand contributor to
OS&S during my time in leadership as a Vice Chair and as Chair last year, thinks outside the box, offers a

cheerful smile and a great laugh when things are tough. And I value that a lot. And so with that, I just
wanted to second the nomination for Director Harwick.
And to Director Paglieri, we will be needing every ounce of your creativity and energy over the next 3.10
years, I guess. So with that, I'll yield the floor back to the Chair. Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Whitmore, for the words. Are there any other
comments from Directors before I turn it over to Director Harwick? Seeing none, Director Harwick, would
you like to speak on your behalf?
IAN HARWICK: I would. I just want to first say thank you to everyone that's supporting me. When I ran for
the RTD Board, I really set out to-- that I wanted to build bridges, and that's something that I continue to
do daily and want to do if I'm elected as Vice Chair.
And Brett and I have had two phone calls very recently, and I have nothing but respect for him and am so
excited to have him on here. I told him yesterday that there's a lot of things that I believe, that I believe
about Denver and the metro area, and he mirrors them a crazy amount. And so I just, I love having a
brother that shares that and wants to go out and advocate for those same things and fight together.
And so for me, if I win, that's great. If Brett wins, congratulations. But I just, I'm excited to be on this
committee with you all. I know how much you all care about this, how much you all care about the RTD,
and it's just a pleasure to be here and pleasure to be with all of you. And no matter which way the cards
fall, the dice fall, I'm proud to be with you all and proud to, Brett, to be building a friendship with you, even
though right now we're against each other.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Harwick. Prior to me going forward, I did want to just
say-- just applaud this committee for just how kind of words were said about either candidate. I appreciate
that. I appreciate us as 15 Directors, that obviously there is elections, obviously, there are disagreements.
But I just want to say giant thank you to all for the kind words for, in this case, both candidates. So thank
you very much.
So with Director Paglieri and Director Harwick having been nominated as Committee Vice Chairs and the
opportunities provided to the candidates and their supporters to make their respective cases, I will now
proceed to call on each committee member in alphabetical order for their vote. As I call your name,
please state the name of the nominee who you support. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Harwick.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Paglieri.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Harwick.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Paglieri.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Paglieri.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Harwick.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Harwick.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you very much, committee members. Just tallied it up. I do have
three votes for Paglieri and four votes for Harwick. With that being said, the majority votes going to
Director Harwick, you are now the Committee Vice Chair. Congratulations. Excellent. Well,
congratulations.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Congratulations.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Congratulations. Thank you again, committee members, for voting. Thank you for all
those who stepped up to run for these leader leadership positions. I cannot thank you guys enough for
the kind words for one another. I really greatly appreciate that. And that really shows the character of this
Board.
With that being said, my duties are all complete. I'll now ask the newly elected committee chair, Ruscha,
to take over for the rest of the meeting. The night is yours, Director.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I am actually going to use my Chair's privilege to make an
announcement for the good of the order, and then we will proceed to public comment if we have any. So,
as noted before, during the election, I did state that I did ask Director Harwick to run for Vice Chair. And I
also express-- we talked about how we work together and the things that we'd accomplished.
And as we got closer and closer to this day, we started talking about, what-- OK, so what happens if we're
both successful? And we realized, I mean, it was unknown, but we said, we are going to co-lead, we have
a co-leadership model. That's what really worked for us with Vision Zero, and that's what works with us on
our projects.
And so while we're not changing the bylaws here, we do have a Chair and we have a Vice Chair, Director
Harwick and Director Ruscha would actually like to co-chair this committee. And for the sake of efficiency,
you may just address us as Chair Ruscha or Chair Harwick. We know our names, and I just eliminated a
syllable.
I see a couple of-- is that-- I'm not sure, Mr. Kroll, if your hand was up first, but I see our Chair's hand is
up.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, absolutely, Director Ruscha, I was actually just going to call on Mr. Kroll, that I
see his hand's up.
[LAUGHTER]

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
JACK KROLL: Director Ruscha, if I may?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely.
JACK KROLL: Thank you. Yeah, I think the operative word that you said earlier is that there's no change
to the bylaws here. The bylaws clearly distinguish between the role of the Chair and the Vice Chair. While
there are many items in practice where the partnership comes to fruition and can yield benefits to the
Board through way of harmony or collaboration, there it is, like Highlander, there can be only one, only
one Chair and only one Vice Chair.
And the Chair is empowered with certain abilities that the Vice Chair does not have, and that will not be
changing. Most notably, that the Chair has the capacity to place something on the agenda, which is a not
insignificant power to exercise.
So just with that clarification, I think all words around co-leading this committee are nice sentiments to
have, but the staff will communicate and work effectively with Director Ruscha in her capacity as Chair.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Well, I forgot what Chair was running the meeting at this point. Chair Bouquet, who
has the gavel?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Ruscha, you are. You are in charge of the
committee now and in charge of the meeting as our Committee Chair. I just would like to say also, for
administrative sakes, we do, as the Chair position, I will call on each of the Committee Chairs, and I will
be calling on you unless Director-- unless told otherwise, or unless Director Harwick is present and you
are not. So just wanted to also make that little note. So but thank you and looking forward to it.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. So I will just make a few quick notes in case folks have questions. So again,
we still have bylaws. And yes, the Chair of a committee does have certain privileges, including adding
something to the agenda or even removing something from the work plan. And when I spoke with
everybody, one to one, I really emphasized team over title and the desire just to build consensus.
And when my Co-chair, Harwick and I were discussing, we have so much work to do, how are we going
to divide the duties. We just again realized that, yes, we still have a Chair. We still have a Vice Chair.
We're not changing bylaws, but this is how we work really well together.
And so to that end, if anybody tries to split the parent, it's not going to work. It's been tried before. But we
have so much to do. And to be honest, well, if you took a look at the homework for tonight, that's just the
starting point.
So both of us are very, very committed to running efficient meetings, being good facilitators, being
positive and-- I don't want to say delegate, it's invite, inviting people in. Everybody here has a seat at the
table, and we are on it to make sure that our work plan is efficient, that we can collaborate with our staff,
and especially our GM CEO, Debra Johnson, on information and information flow.
I like reading and I read everything, especially stop signs, but we're going to go through thousands of
pages this summer, and we know that there's energy for some new ideas or to take up some previous
topics and maybe even get more information from staff on things we care about. We can only do that if
we make space.

And so, again, I understand, we understand the rules. And Chair Harwick and I will figure out some
delegation of duty. But we just appreciate the support. And to just echo what Chair Bouquet said, I think
the kindness and the collaboration of the members of this committee show that we can get this done.
Now, quick bit of housekeeping before I turn it over to Mr. Kroll. As you might be aware, the Chair of
Finance and Planning was named by Director Guissinger as Most Improved Player. And I'm competitive.
So in speaking with my friend, the Chair of F&P last night, I also reminded him that you keep bragging
about your work plan.
But historically, OSS was really four different committees, and we have three times as many agenda
items. And last year we passed really big policy. And naturally, Director Guzman, Chair Guzman of
Finance says, bring it, sis. So we are in a friendly competition to see which committee can get through
their work plan without fumbling. Ideally, everybody wins. Both teams win because then our constituents
win and staff wins. But I like to get extra credit and I think we have the A team.
So as noted, Directors can unilaterally remove something from a work plan. But unless this is something
that staff is actually retracting, we're not going to do that. That would be cheating. So with that, I will turn it
over to Direct-- well, see, I just slipped up, Mr. Kroll, sometimes our silent 16th Director, and the greatest
herder of cats.
Oh, I apologize because I'm looking at the screen-- the script, and there's still CART-- public comment. I
would like to open up public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star-9 on your
phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised or public comments?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Ruscha, at this time there are no hands raised for public comment. And
in anticipation of your subsequent question, we did not receive any emailed comments in advance of this
meeting as well.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. And please be patient with your new Chair because I am looking at a
script and CART and faces. So I believe we are on to discussion items. Yep. So we have one discussion
item today on the agenda. And that is our 2025 Operation, Safety, and Security Committee work plan. So
I would like to ask Jack Kroll, our Board Office Executive Manager, and Fred Worthen, Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, excuse me, to present this item.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Committee Chair Ruscha. I will kick things off and then share the floor with
AGM Worthen on anything that I might have missed. The purpose of today's conversation really is to
queue up the work plan as it currently exists, and then go through the process that you all will take to get
these over the finish line and approved.
For those of you who attended the Finance and Planning Committee last night, this will be much of the
same update. However, for posterity's sake, I'll share the highlights here again.
The work plan development began in earnest in December, with collaboration between staff and the
Board Office on the items that staff has awareness on and insights into that will be coming forward to the

Board throughout the next 12 to 13 months. Every work plan that is approved by the committees actually
goes through the first two months of the next year. This is to account for the fact that sometimes there's
some lag in getting these approved, and you all are required to approve them no later than March, though
you could approve them in February if you all are ready.
The steps that will be taken now that we have a foundation from staff, which has populated the work plan
that you all see in the packet, is we will solicit Directors' input, both here in this committee meeting, and
then subsequently be a form that the Board Office has prepared. We anticipate sending that out to the
Board tomorrow.
We're waiting on additional feedback from our colleagues here at 1660 Blake, just so that we're all on the
same page, and we'll share that form with you all, along with some additional resources. Two key
resources will join with that form that solicits your ideas and objectives for your policy goals here with the
Board in 2025, those resources being we're going to have a matrix that outlines the different ways in
which you-- or paths with which Directors may pursue policy objectives.
And then we're also going to share out a timeline for Board packet production and materials. And I want
to really stress this second piece for your awareness. The timeline for production and submission of
Board packet materials really needs to be followed and adhered to by not only staff here, but also Board
members that want to bring items forward.
It's vitally important that we meet our publication deadlines so that we can ensure public transparency into
the Board's actions, and this document will provide you all insights into how to make sure that your items
are meeting those deadlines so that the Board Office has enough time to prepare those and get those
published in advance of your meetings.
Subsequent to the form being distributed and then submitted by Directors, you will submit a form for each
objective that you have. That information will be provided to the Chair and Vice Chair of each of the
standing committees as well as the appropriate staff supporting those committees. And there will be a
meeting between the Chair and Vice Chair of each of the standing committees and the staff supporting
those committees to further discuss the work plans, after which the Board will then discuss the current
state of the work plans at your retreat in February.
This will then hopefully get the work plans into a very complete state, and you all would have the option to
approve the work plan at your February meeting. Or, if more discussion is warranted, you would then be
able to discuss it further at your February meeting and then approve the item in March.
And with that, I just want to note too, even with the items that have come from staff that have populated
this work plan to date, there is a significant opportunity-- or significant possibility that as work progresses,
the timing of certain items may change. And of course, the committee will-- and the committee's
leadership will be kept apprised of any changes to timing from items coming forward for your review.
And with that, I have nothing further to add and would be happy to yield the floor to AGM Worthen if
there's anything additional he would like to add on this.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Kroll, do you have the ability to screen share and put up that document so we've
got-JACK KROLL: I sure can.

JOYANN RUSCHA: That also reduces one screen for me as well. Thank you.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Just give me a couple moments here to pull it up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely. Appreciate it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: While Mr. Kroll does that, Committee Chair Ruscha, may I be recognized?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, of course.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. I just wanted to make a huge plug-- I did this during finance
and planning yesterday-- please, once those forms come out, please make sure you fill in what you
believe should be some desired items for the work plan. In all honesty, last year, we kind of were in real
time when it came down to our retreat with Directors coming with ideas, and I believe that this form will be
much more efficient when it comes down to one solidifying what items we believe-- well, you guys, as
committee members truly believe are going to be the most beneficial to adding to your work plan.
So please, please make sure that you fill out that form prior to the retreat. That will greatly help out your
committee Chairs, Director Ruscha and Director Harwick, who will facilitate the conversation, most likely,
during the retreat. And coming forward with ideas-- again, this is the teacher inside of me who's saying,
have some plans, have it ready. The more feedback that you guys can give to those forms, the better the
conversation will be. So I just wanted to plug that real quick. So thank you very much, Committee Chair.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And as a former Chair, heard and-- excuse me, former teacher-- heard
and noted. [LAUGHS]

So I think my screen is still on the-- OK, we're back. I think we're-- are we waiting on Mr. Kroll or Mr.
Worthen? It looks like we've got our draft work plan up, and whomever is next may go ahead and
proceed.
FRED WORTHEN: If I may, Direct-- Chair Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely.
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. I think Mr. Kroll covered most everything, but
I do want to remind everybody that this is a living document that will be subject to change. Some things
will happen like clockwork, regular reports, and some things like service changes and Title VI equity
analysis will occur pretty much on a calendar basis. However, contracts and procurements can change
significantly depending upon processes, responses, and internal operational issues itself.
So I do want to reiterate this is a draft document. It is a living document. And you will see it change from
month to month. And we will make sure that we keep it updated. I think Mr. Kroll has covered everything
else. So with that, I will yield the floor to you, Chair Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I think, while recognizing that it's 6:19 and I do know that the
Nuggets are playing tonight. But we have-- I think we got a little bit more work to do before we adjourn.

And I think it would be beneficial because this committee has such a wide span, and we are welcoming
our new members, if-- and I don't mind if it's you, Mr. Worthen, or if it's you, Mr. Kroll, to just walk us
through what we have-- and because not everyone is familiar with the cadence. And I see a couple of
new items on here that might prompt a couple of questions just for clarification, so that we understand
what staff has prepared for us.
And I'll just leave it between you two, whoever wants to take it away.
FRED WORTHEN: Mr. Kroll, would you like me to do this, or would you prefer to do it?
JACK KROLL: Since I pulled most of this together, I'm happy to run through it. And since I've got the
screen share, that might make it less clunky. But please feel free to fill in the gaps, AGM Worthen, as I
might miss some things.
So this, again, is staff's current best understanding of the flow of items. And as Mr. Worthen alluded to
earlier, there are certain things contained in this document that are regular business of the Board, most
notably, the Board's obligations to review and approve recommended service changes three times
annually.
And so, skipping ahead to the month of February here, you'll actually see that this is a pretty common
refrain within the document where you have the May 2025 service change recommendations coming
forward. As you all are aware, there's been some conversations around paratransit at RTD and potential
program modifications to that. Staff is very much still in the depths of collecting feedback and input on
that.
The customer's bill of rights, this is a bit of a mistake here on my part, not rider's bill of rights, but
customer's bill of rights is a carry over from last year's work plan. And so, I'm not going to go into depth
about all of these items. But you can see, February is slated, if all of these items remain on the agenda
for that month, to be very busy.
You can see, skipping ahead to March, you have a smattering of various action items related to the May
2025 service change, a potential procurement related to the East Metro Hoists. And then I just want to
note here, while, again, the timing may shift on this, with large items per the Board's operating guidelines,
it's expected that these items come first as a discussion and then as an action item, and then specifically
as it relates to any Director-initiated policy objectives that you all wish to pursue.
I highly recommend the two-step approach, if not more, whereby you are bringing items forward as a
discussion item first and then subsequently returning with an action item. That way you're not catching
anyone off guard, you're allowing people to process the information, ask follow-up questions, refine your
proposed idea, and then bring it forward as an action item.
There is a regular obligation by RTD to review its Title VI program, and so that is slated to come forward.
Some of these items that you all will see on the work plan are part of larger statutory or regulatory
obligated items, the Title VI program update being one of those where we're required to review that and
update it regularly.
Another item here that was of significant attention to the Board last year was the fixed route bus
contracted services. So this is, in particular, in relation to RTD's outside partners that support our fixed
route bus service and other services that are provided. I.e., this is the service that we contract out to

another firm to provide. And so that item, again, coming as a discussion and then subsequently as an
action.
I think, really, what we're seeing here throughout the rest of the year here are a lot of procurements and
contract-related items that do not fall-- or are of a particular nature that they don't fall within the GM and
CEO's delegation of authority. And so some of these items you'll see on the work plan are coming both as
a discussion and then as an action.
Some are just coming as an action item, such as the East Metro Hoist. That's really predominantly due to
relative materiality of those procurements. And so that's always open to discussion. Things can come
back as a discussion item and then an action item if the Board so chooses. But that's predominantly the
summer months here.
And then as we get into the fall, you can see one big item that I know is Committee Chair Ruscha's, one
of her favorite items each year to review, which is you have the PTASP. That's coming as a discussion
item and then as an action item. And Chair Ruscha, for those who are new here tonight, do you want to
enlighten them as to what the acronym PTASP stands for?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan? Did I get that right? [LAUGHS]
JACK KROLL: That's correct.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And it's about 400 pages. And I think Director Nicholson suggested that he was
going to try to run it through ChatGPT, but I don't think that works. However, we will also get the summed
version as well. It actually is one of my favorite meetings. That wasn't a lie.
JACK KROLL: And I see that GM and CEO Johnson had her hand raised earlier, but maybe it came
down. I don't know if there was anything you wanted to add here before I just quickly wrap up the
contents here.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. No, I was just going to speak more specifically for
the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, but Director Ruscha touched upon it, so there's no need at
this juncture. Thank you.
JACK KROLL: Great. And then as you can see, again, here, at the end of the year, you have your
January service changes, so there's rarely a month that goes by where you're not looking and planning at
the service change, or looking at or discussing a service being delivered or planned to be delivered by the
agency. And I think that speaks to the complexity and the nuances that go into planning service at the
agency.
One thing that I do want to highlight here is the semiannual PD update. This was actually a request from
Director Buzek during the development of last year's work plan. And that item-- I believe it also comes
earlier in the year during the summer-- is a good example of something that Directors raised, they wanted
to see, they worked with staff, they afforded staff enough time to prepare for, and then those have now
become a regular part of the cadence and content of your meetings.
And then I'll just wrap up here. In January and February of next year, you'll see that these items are listed.
This is customary for the Board to take action on the election of the Committee Chair and Vice Chair and
then discuss its work plan.

Why call specific attention to January and February of next year? Because I want to make sure that you
all are aware that your work plans do continue into the subsequent year, and as you all assess your
objectives for the year, I think it's really important that you take into account when and how you can
accomplish these items. And your committee meeting times are-- the time you all spend in your
committee meetings, I should say, is very dear and is a premium, and you're going to want to think long
and hard about what and when you dedicate your time to as a group.
And so with that, Committee Chair Ruscha, I don't really know if there's much to add unless Directors
have specific questions on any items that may be coming forward on the work plan. And we have a
number of subject matter experts here that could certainly address those.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I typically would speak last, but I'm taking notes and I'm going to ask a few clarifying
questions, and then we'll follow up offline further so we can give other members a chance to speak and
maybe popcorn a little bit before we adjourn.
For our Title VI update, are we talking about our-- we're not talking about the yearly update we give to the
FTA, we are talking about potential policy update. Is there anyone that could address that, just for
clarification?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So just so we're clear, as it relates to the requirements of the Federal Transit
Administration, every transit agency that is a recipient of federal dollars must abide by the Civil Rights law
and recognizing Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
The point of the matter is that we have a Title VI program plan. FTA requires an agency that has an
established Title VI plan to update it on a triennial basis, or as otherwise directed by the Federal Transit
Administration. Hence, our program is in-- was in effect from 2022 currently to mid 2025.
And just for everybody's edification, there are certain policies that are incorporated into a Title VI program
plan. There are the major service change policy, which you all should be very familiar with, as we look at
that, when we do a service change, because we want to ensure, as it relates to the FTA circular, that
when we do a major service change, that we are not creating a disparate impact or disproportionate
burden to low income or minority populations.
Another aspect of that quite naturally, talking about low income, is defining what low income is as it
relates to those that make 150% or less under the federal poverty level, and then fair equity policy as it
relates to looking at any type of increases or decreases or restructuring with our fare system or fare
structure, I should say.
And then while this isn't a requirement of the FTA pursuant to its circular, in our last program update in
2022 after garnering feedback from the general public, RTD does include a key activity centers
assessment because we want to ensure that RTD's equity analysis process to further clarify whether
there is a major service change may disproportionately impact minority or low-income customers.
And members of the Board may recall, when we put forward our last service change, we were looking at
key activity centers and talking about the ability for those within our service network to be able to access,

i.e. higher institutions of learning, grocery stores or grocers-- I qualify it as not grocery stores, but grocers- and medical facilities and things of the like.
So we're currently in the process of garnering feedback. We disseminated a call for public comments via
several different channels, including media advisory, which we're taking through January 31, because this
informs our policy. Basically, we restructure that, bring it to you all, because prior to submittal to the
Federal Transit Administration, we have to have the Board review and consider it, and then we submit it
going forward.
And then the FTA basically lets us know if they approve our program. And in managing expectations, it
does take the federal government some time to do that, especially with the changing of administrations,
because it took us nearly 18 months to get the previous one approved. So I hope that addresses your
question. I know I gave a lot of detail, but there'll be supplemental onboardings for those that are newer to
the agency, or the Board, I should say, as well as staff, where we can do a deeper dive into what is
required relative to any type of Title VI program.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you very much, GM CEO Johnson. That was an excellent summary. And I am
familiar with our Title VI program, our current policies, and I do know that we have a triennial. And I just
wanted to make sure-- and also in case there were other Directors who had questions as to what we
might be looking at, that we were talking about a potential policy revision, and that outreach and not the
annual update.
And I also just wanted to note, for Directors who are interested, all of our Title VI documents are posted
on our website, including our reports, and you go back previous years. But you're also welcome to reach
out to staff. And I'm hoping that part of training for our new teammates is completed by the time we get to
that. So I trust the Board Office is checking against our work plans as well.
And then I just had another comment. Vision Zero, we are expecting an update from our General
Manager and CEO no later than July 31, I believe, and I don't think I saw it on the work plan unless it's
maybe at the bottom as a TBD because we don't know if it's coming June or July, but just wanted to flag
that. That has not dropped off the calendar. It just might not have-- this is a draft document.
And on the customer bill of rights, I just wanted to flag, that's something that the previous committee
voted unanimously to add to the agenda-- or excuse me, the work plan. We could elect to remove it. I
have a sense that, given our committee makeup and what I've heard the feedback, is that we would like
to keep it. But that would be an example of an item that might benefit from a small work group.
And so if there are any Directors who are interested in working on the customer bill of rights with staff,
please just shoot me a ping via email and copy Mr. Kroll because, again, we have a-- we've got a big
table and a lot to do. And I would love just to welcome opportunity for folks who have the energy and the
passion, if they would like to work on this, I don't need to own it. And I trust as a committee we'll do a
great job and we'll be able to get something to the full Board that everyone can be very proud of.
And I'm going a little bit out of order, but I didn't have a pre-meeting and then some of this was a little bit
new for me when this was released on Friday. I just wanted to note just a couple of things. It's probably
been said in training, but I want to emphasize that the work plan does not change the fact that three
Directors-- and it doesn't even have to be Directors from the same committee, actually-- can add an
agenda item. It has to go to the proper committee of reference. But you can bring something forth. And I
just wanted to note that.

So if there is, say, in July, three Directors who have brought-- want to bring something forth that falls
under the purview of this committee, we are obligated to add it to the agenda. And we will make space for
it. However, the more heads up, the better, as Mr. Kroll noted. And also staff, myself, other Directors,
we're all here to help. And we will do everything we can to make space.
But with or without the work plan, it does not change the three Director rule in our bylaws. So I just
wanted to emphasize that in case that-- just to-- because I'm not sure how this had previously been
communicated.
And then we do have until March to pass this. What I would like to do, as noted, is that we get a strong
head start and please share what you would like to see on this work plan and fill out those documents as
soon as you can. And if you think of something a few days later, it's OK to add a PS. The important thing
is getting it in early, just so that staff has time to process and that chairs can process as well.
To that end, I'm just going to give a couple of examples of what requests could look like. And I think Mr.
Kroll went over a few, but I have them on my list here.
So for example, if you see that we already know we're getting an update, like, for example, from our
police department, and you're interested in a certain type of data or something about a program, that is
perfectly acceptable either officially through the work plan or because you know it's coming, to reach out
to myself or to Chair Harwick.
Again, we'll delegate some duties because we're going to be successful if we divide and conquer-- not
divide each other, but some of the work-- and say, hey, I like that. Can you add this? And then give staff
that lead time. And if it's not something that can be done, then we'll try to, at that presentation, we'll try to
work it in or maybe it's a memo.
But just as you're looking at this and you see some things that-- or maybe you see, oh, I see contracts.
Well, I know that in order for me to feel comfortable voting on them, this is a kind of information that I
would like to have. Please just communicate that. And that helps us facilitate, because part of that
facilitation is getting the committee members what they need and recognizing that everyone here is
democratically elected with a mandate.
And our bosses, we have 200,000 to 220,000 of them. So while you're looking at this work plan and
thinking of things you might want to add, also take a look at what's already on here and think, what do I
need to be successful and to feel confident when I vote so we can give staff as much lead time as
possible.
And with that, I would also just wanted to offer-- and I think this is maybe a followup, so I can work with
the Board Office on this. But I just wanted to note, because it was noted last night in F&P-- and we've
talked about this a little bit-- is that we do have a budget. It doesn't mean that every single dollar is spent,
but we do have certain fiscal policies and rules.
And so, I just want to advise, that if folks have something coming that might have a fiscal note, it
potentially could be a budget transfer, which is slightly different process, we do need to make sure there's
a funding source. And it is possible-- and Chair Harwick and I learned this last year, and we rolled with it-that sometimes the policy has to start and then maybe another piece of it that had a fiscal is the next
fiscal year because there's a planning aspect or something.

So I just wanted to put that out there. And as you're thinking about things, keep that in the back of your
mind. But of course, staff is here to help and answer any questions about fiscal policy or budget matters.
And some of it's also related to local budget law as well.
But with that, I'm actually-- this is probably the most I talk this year. I'm going to yield, and someone's got
to tell me-- because I'm looking at two different screens-- if we have any hands raised. And if you don't
mind, Mr. Kroll, could you go ahead and manage the queue?
JACK KROLL: Sure, certainly. I see Director Nicholson, then Director Buzek, then Director Bouquet.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Oh, I'm sorry. So yeah, traditionally, the Chair recognizes the person,
and I am also reading the smaller captions. So can you just, Mr. Kroll, who is first in line?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, just as I stated it there. Director Nicholson, then Director Buzek, then Director
Bouquet.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. And I appreciate that you did state it, but I didn't-- thank you for
being gracious and restating it. So Director Nicholson, you are recognized. And we'll try to keep
comments or questions to, say, 90 seconds if we can, two minutes max, so that we can give everyone
else time to speak. So Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, no, I appreciate that, Chair Ruscha. By the way, do you prefer Madam Chair
or Mixed Chair or-- because I know when, in the legislature, we've had non-binary individuals who were
chairs of committee. So I wanted to get that down first, and then I'll ask my question.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I appreciate that. So actually just Chair is fine. It actually reminds me
when I was in committee and I was asked a question and I was like, Director is fine [LAUGHS] during
session. But thank you. And yes, Chair, please.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: All right, Chair. So I ran on a pretty strong agenda of transparency in government.
It's super important to me. And one of the things that came up as a part of that was contracts. And I
noticed on this agenda, on this work plan, not agenda, on this work plan, we have a number of contracts
that are going to come before the committee in the months and years to come-- in the months to come.
At least for me, I have a hard time voting to approve a contract unless I can read that contract in full. And
I have a hard time doing that unless I can read that contract, let's say, a week before I actually have to
vote on it, because some of them are a couple hundred pages long.
I'm wondering if-- and this has been a point of contention in the past, which is why I'm asking the
question-- can you commit to us, as members of the committee, not to agendize a contract without
making sure that we're provided with that contract at least a week before we have to vote on it.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So I'm processing everything you said, and I-- you might recall, in my first few
months, I elected to not vote for a contract for the same reason and I often did not. So I'm going to-- I'm
not going to sidestep the question, but what I need to do is talk with council to see how we could
effectuate a better process. Because we do have privilege, but we also have procurement rules.
And to that end, the-- so all our contracts are also up for bid online, and it is pretty standard. So almost
everything in the final contract is going to be published. There will be some conforming pieces perhaps
that are not. And it is likely covered in a memo or a staff question.

So I commit to making this absolutely as transparent as possible and giving everyone time. And I will also
need to work with staff to make sure we're doing it in a way that is also compliant with our procurement
rules. And so I hope that answers your question. So it is, yes, to the extent that we can, and I also
appreciate you bringing that up.
I'll also just add, when I was looking at this, I thought to myself, maybe we could, just because some
things are new and some of us just joined the team, in our next draft be very specific if it is a contract. I
know because I can-- I remember our budgets, what some of these are and when we approve those
dollars. But it might not be as obvious to folks who just were not in the meetings for the last couple of
years. So maybe just a notation too from staff, or even color-coded, but just that this is a budgetary item,
it's a fiscal item would also be helpful.
But thank you for bringing that up Director Nicholson. And I do like to read the whole contract, or as much
of the contract I'm allowed to before I vote. So I'm with you on that concept.
Who is next in the queue, Mr. Kroll? And thanks for being gracious, because it's going to take me a little
bit of a learning curve to manage multiple screens with a hearing impairment. So you just tell me who's
next.
JACK KROLL: Director Buzek.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Chair. Am I recognized?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, yes, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Chair. And as you know Chair, I hold in high regard brevity and precision of
speech. So I will keep my comments brief and precise.
A couple of things I see on the work plan or I don't see on the work plan that I would like to see more of,
because the second S in our title is security, we've only got three items for the whole year that have to
deal with the security part of this committee. I'd like to see more involvement from our PD with regard to
what's going on there. And in particular, I'd like to see the update, at least the first one brought up earlier if
possible, get us up to speed.
After that, I will be submitting comments to you, Madam-- Chair, through the appropriate process. And
that's all I have. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And who is next in the queue, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yep. No, next we have Chair Bouquet, and then Director Nicholson likewise has his hand
raised again.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. We will go ahead in that order. And we will try to mimic Director Buzek's gift of
brevity, which I'm still working on. I just also want to note that I typically have a CART screen, and I can
see a much bigger screen of what just happened, but because I'm also looking at a document, I'm looking
at the Zoom screen.

I don't want anybody to think I'm not paying attention. It's that your eyes can only look at one thing at a
time. So thank you for being patient, and we'll just work on that moving forward and how we-- everyone's
accommodated. So now I just forgot because it wasn't in front of me.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, Chair Bouquet is next, and then [INAUDIBLE].
JOYANN RUSCHA: Chair Bouquet, OK. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Two points, as Committee Chair Ruscha pointed out. One, it
is a living document. Even though you will pass this early on in the year, as mentioned, items can be
brought up. Nothing is finalized.
With that being said, Committee Chair Guzman pointed out, I believe, during F&P or maybe another
committee, a big point part of this is going to be prioritizing what is important for 2025 and bringing
forward-- because, again, there's a lot of energy, a lot of ideas ultimately, and again, use the form, I'm
going to keep pushing that as much as I can. But use that form and of course, talk to your chairs,
regarding it.
A big point of-- big, big part of this is going to be prioritizing. Again many comments have been brought up
about security. There's comments with contracts, whatever it ultimately is, is it's up to you guys as a
committee to prioritize what is going to be most important and seen in the 2025 work plan.
And as brought up and mentioned, it's a living document. Things can change ultimately. But again, please
make sure that you guys use that form as a tool so that we can get a good idea of what's going to be the
discussion regarding the February retreat.
So sorry to be a broken record, but just wanted to push that. And with that being said, I actually am going
to hop off myself and all for you guys, OSS. Have fun tonight.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I believe Director Nicholson?
JACK KROLL: That's correct.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: You are recognized, sir.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: It is me once again. One of the things that I couldn't help but note when I was
reading over this work plan was the word staff repeated over, and over, and over, and over, and over, and
over, and over again down the left side. Which makes sense. This was drafted largely by staff, but there's
not that many items on there that are being put on by members of the Board out of all of them.
And I think that a good number of us came in with an agenda and things that we want to work on. I know
that Director Chandler has a number of things that she's very passionate about and has spoken of to me,
and obviously Director Paglieri as well has been super engaged on a number of these items.
So my question is, when are we planning on time, say, a study session, to go over what are all the things
that need to be on this agenda that aren't currently, not because they're not-- because the things on this
agenda are the must get done according to what we have to do every year-- what are the stuff-- when are
we talking about all the stuff we're adding to it?

And I don't think doing it as a one-off of, oh, I'm going to email it to you. I know we're going to have a big
discussion during the retreat about stuff. Or can you commit to planning something similar for F&P to talk
about the stuff that needs to be on F&P's agenda that we all care about that we can add to this.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think I need clarification on your question because you mentioned F&P. So are you
talking-- are you asking-CHRIS NICHOLSON: I didn't mean to say F&P, it's been a long-JOYANN RUSCHA: OK.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: --OSS.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, all right. [LAUGHS]

So are you asking, can I commit to having a huddle or-- before our retreat, is that kind of what I-CHRIS NICHOLSON: No, before or after the retreat, a study session, basically, for the Board, for this
committee to discuss what are all the things we'd like to add to this. What are the things that are missing.
What are the projects that maybe were things we might have wanted to get into the goals, but they're not
goals, they're initiatives, and so they should be on the agenda for F&P.
I think there's a number of things on every single one of our checklists, and it would be nice to have an
opportunity to confer over those checklists and then schedule stuff as a group. And I think we can only
really do that if we're all in an open meeting together, talking through what our goals are.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely. So I am not apprised fully of what our retreat agenda will be. So I don't
know how much time has been set aside. But I do commit, Director Nicholson, because we felt a little bit
of this pain last year, our first year, to, a, being fully apprised of what process has been planned and then,
b, seeing if necessary, how do we make more time.
But I guess it's-- unless Mr. Kroll has more information about what we have on our agenda for the retreat,
I guess all I can say is that I need to get more information, because I don't know what's planned for the
retreat. And I want to give the context text of, originally, I think, our retreat was going to have a couple of
hours and then, because of other matters, we didn't get enough time. So I don't know if that's changing
this year.
But you do have my commitment. We are going to make time for this. And that also means we need to
work with staff, because this is staff time as well. We'll figure it out one way or another.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Appreciate it.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, absolutely. Do we have anyone else in the queue?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Director Whitmore.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Whitmore, you are recognized.

TROY WHITMORE: Chair, if I may, go ahead. First of all, Mr. Kroll had his hand up in regard to that.
You're OK, Jack? All right. All right.
Not to sound parochial over last year's leadership of this committee, I just want to remind everybody that
this tool is all of about 11 months old, maybe 10 months. So it's not been something that's been utilized
and deemed as broken. So let's please remember, this was brought forward by the Board last year, or a
few months ahead of 2024, as a very important tool to do as much of what we can as referenced, notably
by Director Nicholson, and so on and so forth.
So please, just let's think good thoughts. Let's look at opportunities to share and move forward. So just a
reminder, this is not a 10-year-old broken process. This is about a 10-month experimental process. And it
is definitely a living document, as Chair Bouquet said, meaning that it is subject to tweaks, and changes,
and amendments, and additions, and deletions and so on, spindle and mutilate as well, I guess we could
say, so to use an old office term. Thank you for your time, Chair.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And that did not all come off as parochial. And I actually want to just,
again, note, if I have not already, give credit to Mr. Kroll for bringing this concept to us. Even though this
is still in its infancy, it was immensely helpful last year. And I was actually just thinking, hey, even just in
our agenda, it's just pretty standard, if we just note the approximate time something is going to take that
also helps us too. And maybe we can add that to the work plan.
So I think the-- and I also note, on the staff thing, some of the things that say, placed on agenda by staff
or Board, there are some things that were Board-requested or member-requested, but staff is either
becoming part of a cadence. So some of these things were also member-requested. And again, this is
our starting point.
I'll also just note, because I want to make sure, again, this process is-- it's new and we have bylaws
related. I did note that Chairs can unilaterally take something and consult with staff off the agenda. You
have my commitment that if something is coming off of the agenda, it's the staff requesting and not
something the committee requested. So if the committee says we would like this in our work plan, I am
not going to remove it without consulting with the committee.
Additionally, when there are changes that have to be made, a month might move around and, especially
with contracting, I will also ensure that the updated plan is disseminated as soon as that decision is
made. And sometimes it's just a scheduling thing.
So with that, do we have anyone else with their hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Director Chandler.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Chandler, you are recognized, my friend.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Well, thank you very much, I appreciate that. I just wanted to echo that, as a
newer member to this committee and obviously to the RTD Board in general, it would be helpful to have a
study session. So if that is something that we can work into some kind of an agenda.
Most city councils and so forth, they have those kinds of study sessions so that we can talk about things
that may or may not be germane and also put that, obviously, on the agenda. It could be something that
is-- it maybe just needs to be slid around, but it would be helpful to have those kinds of study sessions.

And I do appreciate the echoing of Director Whitmore and Director Bouquet that it is a living document.
This is very, very helpful, especially to the newer members. So again, I appreciate it, but I do think that
having a study session would also help this process. So thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And Director Chandler, just to clarify, so when you say-- so would you-- is
the request I'm hearing is, can we have a study session just on the work plan, a specific meeting on the
work plan, or are you-- or were you also commenting that sometimes topics might come up and then we
have a study session on that, and that can be added to the work plan? Because I want to make sure that
this gets the time.
And I will also need to confer with the Chair of the Board to see what he has planned, like I noted, with
the retreat. So just I just want to clarify or get clarification if you meant a, b, or both.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes, Chair, I appreciate that. I think both. I think there needs to be study
sessions on the work flow for the entire year, because I think that's something that's very important,
especially since, as a newer person, I don't understand the timing of it all and when things are due, et
cetera.
But I also think if there is a very specific subject, especially on some of the schedule changes that are
very complex, I think it would be really helpful if we had a little bit more ability to work through that before
we had more of an agenda item, something that I could think about so that I have that knowledge. So
when we do have an open discussion in a public meeting I'm a little bit more thoughtful in my preparation.
So I think it's a both.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Understood. Absolutely. And what I will do is I will confer with staff and again check
to see what has already been planned. But you do have my commitment that we will work it out and make
the time. I also need to confer again with our Chair and bylaws.
Typically, when study sessions are coming through just one committee, then there's dialogue with Chair
because we only have so many staff and stuff. So you have my commitment that I will have a much better
answer for you when I have the information. But we are going to get this time. We'll make it happen.
And with that, I know that Mr. Kroll, you also had some things to attend to this evening. If you need to
head out, I think we could handle the next couple of minutes. But do we have any other hands in the
queue? And again, next meeting I'll have two screens and a printed document, so I appreciate everyone
helping me out as I read the transcript. And-JACK KROLL: Yes, Director Ruscha, I just wanted to respond quickly to Director Chandler's request and
notion that she be more aware, or that the new Directors be more aware of certain items as they come
forward to the Board. And we have a very robust training schedule and plan for all of that. And so as we
have further conversations on this, I think we need to consult whether additional study sessions are
warranted or if some of these topics will be covered in the previously planned training sessions.
And I do see Director Nicholson's hand is also raised.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, Director Nicholson, you are recognized, and we'll try to keep this-- just looking at
the time-- two minutes or less, please.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I will do my very best. I wanted to echo what Director Chandler said. I actually think
a regular study session would be very helpful, even if that's only 30 minutes before the actual meeting, so

that we can have discussions about things that are not on the agenda and get briefings, whatever, and
have an open conversation.
I've seen city councils do a regular study session as well when you're dealing with technical items, and I
think we're going to be dealing with a lot of technical items. And I may have certain level of familiarity,
Director Paglieri may have a certain level of [INAUDIBLE] for other things. And I think that the opportunity
to really get up to speed and bite in on the stuff that we're going to be dealing with, not to say that F&P
doesn't deal with complicated things, but I don't a socket wrench from a sanding belt-- or kind of do. But
we're dealing with stuff like that.
And so I'm OK, personally, and I'm willing to bet that a couple of other Directors are as well, with us taking
a little bit of extra time to make sure we really understand what we're voting on before we vote on it. We-the voters, put us in these chairs, in part, because they've been dissatisfied with the level of oversight that
they've seen by RTD over the operations of RTD.
This is the operations committee. We have a job. We are being trusted by our constituents to
demonstrate that we are doing that level of oversight. So it's super important to me. I think it's going to be
super important to others. I hope it is. And would love to work with you to make sure we have the
necessary time to really dig in. And I know you care about this stuff too.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Absolutely. So thank you, Director Nicholson and Director Chandler for the
comments and the emphasis on that education piece. And I'm very much committed to that. And I'm also- I engage in that myself, for example, APTA.
I am not dodging a question, but I actually-- and I just realized that there just might be a
miscommunication here. I do not have the power to compel Mr. Kroll [LAUGHS] to do something. I don't
have that authority. That is the Chair. And I can't just compel staff and say, we're calling a meeting.
Now, we can have meetings without staff. We did that with Vision Zero. That's not ideal, particularly if we
need staff to answer questions and such like that. So what I'm just asking from the team is to give me a
minute, get some information, and then you do have my commitment on these concepts that you're
bringing up, but I need to go figure out what the process will be like. Does that make sense?
So I'm not dodging, it's just more of a process thing, and this is-- it's our first meeting of the year. So we-yeah, we have to wait until a Chair and Vice Chair is elected before they have pre-meetings. So we'll
have a lot more information soon. But yes. And I'll work with Mr. Kroll on getting out some effective
communications on what to expect. And then we'll see what additional time is needed.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: You're welcome. All right. With that, I don't-- are there any other hands in the queue?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, Committee Chair Ruscha, Director Paglieri has his hand raised.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. And again, thank you for helping me manage the screens tonight.
Director Paglieri, you are recognized.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair. I'll keep it brief. I just wanted to second what Director Chandler said
that I think study session would be wise. And I also anticipate using the new process and adding quite a

few good ideas to the agenda. And I think it would be a best use of time if we were able to discuss some
of the ideas that will be brought forth. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Heard and noted. Are there any more Directors in the queue?
JACK KROLL: Director Ruscha, Director Chandler has her hand raised as well.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Chandler, you're recognized.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Sorry, one last comment. I just want to say, Chair, that it is more than fair, what
you're saying, that you need time. We are just saying that we have recognized that this is a living
document and that you need time in order to set that up. And it is also fair that we have the staff involved
in this, as well as making sure that we are not violating any sunshine laws or any of that. We want to
make sure that there is adequate time for all kinds of comments.
So I just want to give you grace that it is fair, what we're all saying, as well as that you're hearing our side
of the need for some kind of pre-meeting, so that we can all understand what we're voting on and to have
good robust discussion. That's what this is all about, collaboration and ideas, that will make this a better
committee, but also ultimately better for RTD in general. So thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you for your comments and thank you also for your grace. Mr. Kroll can attest,
this morning, I had some of my own anxiety because I knew we would have questions, and I felt like the
teacher who walked in without a lesson plan. I used to be a former teacher. So you've got my-- you have
my commitment. And let me just go find some information and we will 100% work this out. Are there any-is there anyone else in the queue?
JACK KROLL: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. All right. Thank you. So with that, I, of course, just lost my screen because I
have four up. That, I believe, concludes our discussion items for the evening. So do we have anyone who
would like to speak under other matters? Any Directors? Going once, going twice.
Again, I would just like to say thank you so much for putting your trust in me, and I will do my absolute
best to be a facilitator and servant leader. But really, I am here to serve the committee, just like Chair
Harwick is, and just like we all are.
We have a great team. I think this was a great warm kickoff. I heard and I felt [LAUGHS] what was
expressed. And I will endeavor to get back to you as soon as practicable when I have the information. But
yes, we will make time.
And so, with that-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, move to adjourn.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I knew it. [LAUGHS]
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
JOYANN RUSCHA: It doesn't even need a second. But yes.

TROY WHITMORE: Oh, great.
JOYANN RUSCHA: We are adjourned at 7:10 PM. [LAUGHS] Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: You're--

From:
Cc:
Subject:
Date:

Jack Kroll
Debra Johnson; Fred Worthen; Melanie Snyder
Fwd: Thoughts about RTD and On Demand
Thursday, January 16, 2025 12:51:43 PM

Good afternoon, Directors,
I wanted to share the email below, which was submitted as public comment for last night's
meeting. I will be sure it is announced as public comment during Executive Committee next
week.
My apologies for missing this. As you can see from below it did not arrive via one of the
normal channels through which the Board requests public comment. Instead it was submitted
by a constituent to former Director Lewis who then forwarded my way.
Best,
Jack Kroll
Executive Manager
Board Office
he | his | him
o. 303.299.2307

We make lives better through connections.

From: Jaime Lewis <
Sent: Monday, January 13, 2025 10:38:42 AM
To: Jack Kroll
Subject: Fwd: Thoughts about RTD and On Demand
WARNING: This email originated from outside of the RTD organization. The sender could not be validated and may
not match the person in the "From" field. Use caution with any information or links contained in this email.

Brenda would like her email read into the record for the Operations Meeting scheduled for
January 14th.
Jaime
---------- Forwarded message --------From: Brenda Mosby
Date: Fri, Jan 10, 2025 at 11:52 AM
Subject: Thoughts about RTD and On Demand
To: Hillary Jorgensen, Jaime Lewis

Hello,

I was pretty disappointed with the meeting on Thursday with RTD. I have some thoughts,
just do not know how to get them to RTD or better yet to the news.
RTD is basing their decision ( final or not) on the numbers and cost. So let’s talk numbers and
cost.

I want to request from RTD the figures on the following:
We know it is costing 1. 2 millions for 60 rides so what is the cost on?
45 rides per month
40 rides per month
30 rides per month

How much will they be receiving adding the 4.50 per ride?

It was stated at the meeting if individuals could get even 40 rides they could still retain their
employment. Which means keeping the difference of 10 rides per month can keep a person
with a disability working.

I   want in writing why and how they came up with a $30 voucher increasing from $25.
It was said in the meeting the average rides are under $20. Why would they increase this
figure if they are trying to save money?

It was also mentioned they will be restricting the rides to only where buses run.
First, why and how did they come up with this decision and how does it save them money?
Also, how can they enforce this, put trackers on Lift, Uber and Metro Cabs?

Another issue I feel is RTD is cutting off their nose to spite their face. I say this because of
two things:
They want to implement the $4.50 per ride. Taking away employment because of the
reductions in rides to 30 will mean some people will not be able to afford the rides. Notably,
no one from the community thought    the $4.50 was unfair and are willing to pay it.

Also, RTD does not seem to understand when they ask for funding from the state they are
asking for money from taxes. When we work we pay taxes like everyone else which means we
contribute to their ability to keep operating.

I am also writing this because the issues the community was sharing with
them such as independence, able to work, reducing isolation seemed to fall on
deaf ears. Of course, to be fair they were probably not the decision makers.
RTD has heard these reasons since this issue has started. Which is why
focusing on the numbers might have a bigger and better impact on the final
decission to be made.
If these figures are somewhere I would like to know and review them.
I went online to RTD and the community link. I did not see anything
regarding this issue.
I would love to have a response from both of you. Maybe there is something
happening I do not know about.
Sincerely, with gratitude,
Brenda Mosby
Vocational Rehabilitation Counselor, MA& Certified Heal Your Life Coach

The information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privileged
material. Any review, re-transmission, dissemination or other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons or
entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you received this in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from
any computer.

