2020-11-24 Ad Hoc Safety and Security 5
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger, Director Walker. I've not seen Director
Lewis yet, but I would like to be respectful of everybody's time and go. Chief Grado, thank you
for being here. Mr. Jensen, Mr. McKay, Marisela, thank you. Mr. Ford, Stephen, thank you. And
then who is the end of the telephone with 58?
BARBARA MCMANUS: John McKay.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, John, you're on here twice.
JOHN MCKAY: Yep.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: He dials in, and then he has to be in to record.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Fancy. Well, I'd like to call the Tuesday, November 24 Safety
and Security Ad Hoc Committee meeting to order. This is an unusual Tuesday Ad Hoc
Committee. And I would just ask Chief Grado if you could do the safety moment for us, please.
BOB GRADO: Sure. Since we were talking about COVID, I'll go there. I know people are really
sick of hearing about this. We've all got the COVID fatigue and we see it spiking probably
because of that. Here we are coming into Thanksgiving week.
So I guess my safety moment, I'll make it quick. A couple things-- I was on the CDC website this
morning just in case you asked me to do this, and I found an interesting tool. They actually have
a coronavirus self-checker. So I logged into that just to-- I thought I'd punch in some of Mike
Meader's symptoms. But it turns out it's a live thing where you're actually talking to somebody,
and they're asking you questions, and they can assess you right there without physically talking.
It's more of a text messaging. So I thought that was kind of cool.
But I guess the other part I want to bring up, if you do feel symptoms coming on, the earlier you
get to the doctor and get diagnosed, the better off you're going to be. We've had several friends
and family that have had the COVID infection, and it seemed like the ones that waited got sicker
and sicker. We have one relative now that's three weeks in and can barely stand up in the shower
at this point. So yeah, just the energy level.
So it'll be a quick safety moment. So I guess my thing is if you feel it coming on, just get straight
to the doctor and get tested. Better safe than sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. OK, Mr. McKay, I do not see anybody from the
public on. Do you?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I do not. This is Barbara.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you, Barbara.
JOHN MCKAY: Sorry. I was unmuting. No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's OK. So we do not have anybody on the queue for public
input. So with that, I would like to go to the recap of the committee information presentations.
So, Chief, I'll turn it over to you.
BOB GRADO: I'm going to try and screen share. And I'll say that a lot of what we're looking at
here-- do you guys see that? Did it come up? This thing
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, it did.
BOB GRADO: OK, good. It's like a hit-and-miss thing. So a lot of what we're going to look at
right here is covered in Marisela's white paper. So I will quickly go through this because we're
going to really hit it twice otherwise because, like I said, a lot of this was copied in which
because the white paper is kind of a summary as well, obviously.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And just for the record, we all received a copy of Marisela
white-paper draft. So all of you do have that.
BOB GRADO: OK, good. So I'm just going to kind of start through this, and feel free to
interrupt if there's any questions.
So we started out talking about the history of the Transit Police Division and when the authority
came into play, 2004. I feel like I'm repeating myself here because we've been talking about this
every week, but our division's a hybrid model of transit police officers, contracted security, and
then secondary employment with the local jurisdictions.
The ask is to work as a team and to re-evaluate the current model and then look at suggestions to
improve upon this model, including community outreach and things, and I'll hit on that in just a
few minutes. We have currently roughly 300-plus armed security officers on the system.
Something we haven't mentioned, there's the secondary employment program. It's the equivalent
of about 60 police officers if you add up all the hours, but it takes between 250 to 350 off-duty,
secondary-employment police officers to fill all those hours. So we've got quite the role of police
officers that are from the other jurisdictions as well.
Currently, internally, we have got 14 transit police officers. So the ask here again is to roll this
out slowly over a five-year period and to come to the Board. We're thinking at this point we'd
like to come to you quarterly and just as part of the ops committee updates. We can make this
part of that. And then each year we'll look at the phase that we finished and see how we did and
where we're at moving to the next phase.
So I'm not going to read this to you, I promise. This is the breakdown. It's a little condensed, but
it goes into each phase each year. The one phase that's kind of unique is 2021. We're going to

play catch up because we've got vacancies from this year that have never been filled. So 2021, if
this is approved, it's going to be a whirlwind for us to build the foundation of what we're trying
to accomplish here.
We've all seen this. This is what the org chart looks like, and I broke that out, color coded it by
year. And we did have some requests. One of the Board member-elects, if you will, asked for
this in a PDF version so you can zoom in and it keeps its format, so we did provide that. And I
believe Marisela has that on her white paper too. It's a little easier to read.
OK, the community outreach part. This is the part I feel like we are really-- we need
improvement on this. It hasn't been as much of a concern because we've really contracted all
these services. But going into this model as we become more self-contained, I think it's really
important for us to do this. Each year we'll expand it and get better at it, but some of the things
we talked about is doing some town-hall meetings and then going with Board members out into
the community when you guys have your meetings and just being more involved with SLT and
the Board as you guys do your meetings that you do on a regular basis.
Another idea we came up with was a police cadet program. One of the issues really all lawenforcement agencies have is getting diversity onto police forces, especially for RTD because
we're only hiring lateral-entry officers. So what that means is they already have to have several
years of experience and be a graduate of a police academy, so it makes it harder to find that
diverse population.
So our idea is to actually go out, identify people in the communities that have an interest in law
enforcement and want to invest time and get them riding with our officers. There's several
programs available. You can do it ourselves. We can develop one. Or the Boy Scouts of America
actually has a canned Explorer cadet program that we can also participate with, and they would
help guide us into getting these young men and women.
Had a call with somebody that is from COMTO and learned that they actually have programs to
sponsor scholarships for educational purposes. So that may be an option too for us to help get
these people. And the idea would be that when they become of age 21 years old, we can put them
into a police academy, which it's about $15,000, believe it or not, to get that certification. So
having some help would be great.
I think that's all I can say on that. Mike? OK, yeah. This is just saying-- this is something Mike
added-- yes, go ahead.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Looks like Director Williams may have a question.
BOB GRADO: Oh, I'm sorry. All I see is my paper. Director Williams-- or who was it?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is Director Williams.
BOB GRADO: Williams, OK.

KATE WILLIAMS: It's me. I'm just wondering, Bob, I know that several of the junior colleges
and technical colleges might have an interest in partnering on something like this.
BOB GRADO: Absolutely, yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: There's one at Peggy's neck of the woods. I don't know the name of it, but
they were very interested in talking to us about a mechanic program, and they probably would be
really interested in this well.
BOB GRADO: Yeah. And I'll just say that this is how I got into law enforcement. When I was
14 years old, I thought even at that age I wanted to do this, so I got into an explorer program and
started. And then when I became 18 and started in college, I went into a formal cadet program.
And, Steve, Mark Ganow, you're on the phone too. I believe you did that in New York as well if
you want to talk about how that worked for you.
MARK GANOW: Yeah. For the New York City Police Department, I was a cadet, and what
they did was they paid for my last two years of college. And I had to give NYPD two years of
service. Otherwise I would have had to pay them back.
Denver PD has the same thing. They have a cadet program where they pay for college. But in
that cadet program, you don't have to work for the agencies. So you can get your degree but then
just leave. So that's something we'd have to talk about in regards to how much money we invest
in individuals and try to see if there's a way to make sure that they stay with the RTD program so
it's not just money for college and then they just leave us.
But going back to Director Williams, going back to you, I've done a few classes. Metropolitan
State has reached out to me. I've gone and spoke to their criminal-justice programs and told them
about our agencies. We also went to Red Rocks Community College, talked about. And again,
the issue, like Keith had mentioned earlier, just based off of cost, we need somebody that's
already received their certification.
So a lot of these college students would love to come to our agency. They like what we're about
when we explain our model and the community-policing aspect of it. A lot of them would really
love to do that. It's just where do they get that $15,000 to join our department?
BOB GRADO: So yeah, and the bigger agencies like Denver or Aurora, they can afford to go out
there. It's part of their model to go out there and do that recruiting and pay for those people to go
through their school.
Another idea I had was to talk to these agencies and see if they're willing to sponsor anybody for
us as well because sometimes they will have empty seats that they'll allow another agency to put
somebody in, especially now because it's getting tougher and tougher to recruit in law
enforcement. It used to be they would have some openings and you'd have over 2,000 people
show up to take a test. Now you're lucky to get a hundred. The excitement of a law-enforcement

career has kind of gone away a little bit these past few years with all the negative press and
what's been going on. But we're going to be part of the solution to that and help change that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thanks, guys.
BOB GRADO: Move ahead here. So again, high-level budget. As I stated last week, we will be
working with our CFO, CEO as part of the overall budget process before this is brought to the
Board. These are rough numbers of what we think each phase will cost, and that's based on
today's dollars. Inflation is not in there.
And then this is a concern Mike wanted to speak about. I wish he was here to talk about this, but
he's saying additional Board action may be required 2021 to 2022 to ensure security levels are
maintained during the transition.
So our problem is we had the $33 million budget 2019. Because of the COVID fiscal cutbacks, it
reduced us to $27 million. So it makes it-- the budget's so tight. It's going to make it really hard
because we have to front end, if you will, pay for these police officers while they're in the
training program and then still maintain our security presence out there. So there may be some
finagling we need to do-- for lack of a better term, robbing Peter to pay Paul just so we can get
set up and get these people put out there.
[TRAIN WHISTLE]
Sounds like the train's arriving.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sorry.
BOB GRADO: No, you're good. So yeah, Mike has a note here. An additional $1.5 million was
removed from the security budget at the end of this year. They took that. And we're concerned
about that, and I think there's going to be further conversations because we've had to decrease
our contracted law-enforcement services to cover that. So we're working on some solutions to get
that money back.
We had vacancy savings, and we returned-- I think it was $2 million roughly to the general fund.
So we're trying to see if we can work with some of that money to make this fit.
And it looks like that is the end of the summary, you guys.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any questions from any Board members or comments? Director
Guissinger. You're muted. There you go.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. Going into the budget there, if we can look back at that again,
these are-- I'm still trying to get out-- I'm trying to understand what we're saving when we're
adding these-- as we add all the new police officers over the course of the next five years. How
close are we to being budget neutral here?

BOB GRADO: Well, we originally-- when we had the $33 million budget, we really had planned
out these phases to be budget neutral. That is our goal, and we're still going to try and get there.
Our hope is that, as I said last week, the sun's going to come out. Maybe we'll have CARES Act
money, something to get us back to normal because our issue, although there's less ridership,
there's still the same amount of opportunity for issues, crime to happen on our system. We
haven't rolled up any sidewalks. We're not fencing anything off. The infrastructure's still there.
And in actuality, we're taking fewer calls for service, but we're taking more serious calls. So we
still need to maintain that presence.
We have, through attrition, scaled back. There has been some programs. I don't want to go into
details, obviously, because this is a public forum and I don't want to give out SSI information,
but there have been several areas that we have scaled back on because we're looking at data and
we see some areas that we've identified that we could cut back on.
So what we've been doing is just asking our contractor to not backfill vacancies. So we have
reduced numbers that way.
But to answer your question, our goal through this whole thing was we said we believe we can
do this and live within the current budget, and I still think we can do that if we can get back up
to- well, I know we can do that if we get back to our normal funding level.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And what's your funding level now, Chief?
BOB GRADO: $27 million, and these are rough, rounded numbers. I think it's 26 point
something, so $27 million. So we've had a $6 million reduction overall.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And was that part of the task-force process-BOB GRADO: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --and our budgeting process?
BOB GRADO: Yes it was. And then this year just before things got crazy, we did have some
vacancy funds. Like I said, we had roughly $2 million that also went back to the general fund. So
we've really cut back this year. We're just being very creative and trying to make sure everything
is covered.
Where it kind of hurts us a little bit is the specials. There's always things happening. If a division
is having an issue and we need to post a guard in a parking lot or something if a gate is down or
there's just different things that happen to where we'll send security around, that's where it's been
tough. We've had to pull these folks off of fare inspection or other areas to go cover some of
these important things.
But everybody's doing what they can do. Obviously it's not just us. It's all the divisions are
hurting right now. So we'll continue to push on.

DAVE JENSEN: Excuse me, Bob. This is Dave Jensen. If I could jump in there real quick on the
budget, that's a good question because we really need to look at it from an overall budget
standpoint. If we're looking at just the security budget, what's going to fall off is what they're
paying for the TSOs. But I'm going to on rail, I have to increase my budget because I'm picking
up a whole new level of staff that didn't previously exist.
So we can't just look at what is coming off of security. We have to look at what's being added
onto rail. We've still got a certain number of people that we still have to pay for and our overall
budget. So we have to be careful when we look at these numbers. The other thing that when we
talk about the conductors-- it could be just me. I'm not sure that we've conveyed this in a way
that's really registering, but the conductors on the trains will not be performing any security
activities, not even fare enforcement. They might be doing fare checks.
So we'll still need security on the rail system out there. So we have to look really closely at what
that overall cost is because Bob's still going to have to put security officers. There's still going to
have to be a security presence somewhere on the rail system, and we can't rely on the conductors
to be providing that because that's not going to be part of their job.
So anyways, I just wanted to throw that out there as we're looking at that big picture what that
might look like for us as an agency.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I have Director Walker and then Director Williams.
But Director Guissinger, do you have anything additionally?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I actually got a lot of questions, but I'll save some of them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'll come back to you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let me just follow up with Dave real quick. Does that mean that we're
adding more cost if we have to add more security plus the conductors? Where are we on that?
DAVE JENSEN: So I think we have to crunch the numbers, and that's where Bob's worked with
commuter rail a little bit. I think it's still-- we won't add costs. That's for sure. Whether we can
save somewhere along the line, that's what we're really looking at is how much can we say, what
that savings looks like.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, and if I can jump in, Dave, that is the concern, and this is where I'm
talking about robbing Peter to pay Paul. Our plan was to take the funds that we're currently
paying for TSOs to do this.
The TSAs are a little less expensive, the safety ambassadors that are unarmed. And I'm guessing
it would be the same model if they were RTD employees as conductors. So our thought was to
transition those over to Dave so he's not going upside down.
But this is the part where I'm getting a little nervous now just because of these budget cuts. We
currently can clear a train in literally three minutes or something if we have a disruption on that

train. Since these conductors or TSAs don't have that ability, we are going to have to make sure
we've got, for now, TSOs throughout the system that can rapidly respond along it being a
combination of transit police and contracted police just to quickly resolve these issues and keep
the train moving.
We do have a meeting coming up next week, right, Dave-DAVE JENSEN: Yes.
BOB GRADO: --to take a deep dive into this budget and crunch those numbers. So as I've been
saying all along, this is really a live document, and it's a living request, if you will, because there
are some hoops we're going to have to jump through and work through a lot of these issues.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And, Chief, just for a point of clarification, TSAs are Transit
Security Ambassadors and TSOs are Transit Security Officers. Is that correct?
BOB GRADO: It's close. The TSAs are Transit Safety Ambassadors. We didn't want security in
there because it's really not their role at all. They don't even usually utilize the security talk group
on our radio system. They're talking directly to train operation.
So the N Line program has worked very well so far. I would say it's a success, but we have had
the-- well, not luxury, the requirement. We've got the Thornton police officers on the IGA. So
they've been helping out. And then we've still been using our security officers to help out when
there are issues. But so far we've been able to clear any issues off very quickly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. And with that, Director Guissinger, I'm going to go to the
next person, and then I'll come back to you. Is that OK?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I think my hand is down now. Thanks for the presentation, again.
I have to be leave in about three-- five minutes-- three or five minutes. Quick question-- is there
as a scenario that you can imagine, Chief Grado, where we have to go back to this existing model
or something close to it?
BOB GRADO: I don't plan on that at all because, again, this is going to be a long process, but
the ultimate goal is to not go there because I do have a concern with utilizing our security
officers in a role as a police officer. So I will say no as I'm knocking on wood and crossing my
fingers.
I think we will always have security officers-- well, I know we're always going to have security
on our system. We're going to have to because we can't afford not to. Some agencies like Dallas,
they pretty much wiped out all of their security and they want 100% police officer. They have

very few security officers, but that's a very expensive proposition to do that. They're spending
more than twice what we are on security.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, and they have a much smaller system.
BOB GRADO: They're half our size, yeah.
JEFF WALKER: OK. All right. Yeah, I was just wondering like in worst-case scenario where we
have to go back to this for something. And the other-- I had something else. I don't remember
what it is, so that's good. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, hi. Thanks. I want to address our using the term conductor. I heard
Mr. Jensen say conductor, and my understanding is that a conductor is an FRA-regulated
position, and so I think we want to be really careful about using that term. I'm good with TSAs or
assistants or whatever, but I got some feedback on the use of that term, conductor. So I'd like us
all to get rid of that word and not use it again.
DAVE JENSEN: So if I could respond to that-- we may have to talk offline and find out what
those concerns are with using that term, conductor, because, as far as I understand, it shouldn't
really present a problem for us because we can still train and be regulated by the FRA on that
position without-- it won't create any extra cost, and it's really just a matter of training
responsibilities, hours tracking, that kind of thing.
And it would actually help us. There's some things right now that would benefit us operationally
to have them trained in those areas. So we can talk offline about what those concerns are, but I'm
not really aware of that.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. They come with a union and a pay scale. You're aware of all that, right,
FRA-regulated conductors?
DAVE JENSEN: Well, so those are the things that we'll have to look into. It shouldn't be really
any different than our operators. So the union part of it is something that we have to work
through. FRA retirement is another thing altogether that we can talk through. But our operators
aren't paying into that, so I don't know why our conductors would have to. So we can look into it.
We can talk.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Let's you and I take this offline.
MICHAEL FORD: I would echo that as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: If it's just a matter of what we call them, then I would strongly recommend
that we start looking for a different name. If, in fact, we are looking to have FRA-trained and
certified conductors in place with all of that implication and the pay scale and the union
background, I'm OK with that. I just was not aware that we were looking for that degree.

BOB GRADO: So this is Bob just really quick. And, Dave, stop me if I'm saying anything that's
not correct, but we are training the current TSAs that we have. We have certified them to be a
second crew member. Same with our TSOs. So they do meet the requirements even as TSAs, not
employees.
And the other part is we're paying a markup, if you will, because we're contracting that. So
bringing the costs inside, it may cover itself.
I did some early math, if you will, with Allen Miller, and it sounded like what we're currently
paying would cover all that. He brought in some statistics from across the country looking at
other agencies.
But again, we're going to meet. We're going to dissect that. Worst-case scenario, we already
know the costs that we're paying for the TSAs, and we'll just go from there.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks, guys.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Guissinger? You're muted.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Let me just ask sort of a process question here. I was just
texting with Shontel. I'm not clear whether this meeting was set at Tuesday and I just missed that
and she just missed that or whether we changed it to today. Which was that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I'm going to have Barbara McManus talk about this, but
yesterday we did send out a notice to the committee saying that this would be held today, number
one. And I know that Director Lewis had a conversation with Mr. McKay yesterday about the
date change. But, Barbara, do you want to talk about that for a minute?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sure. So actually this date has been on the calendar from the original
series. When we sent out the original series for Wednesday, we knew that there would be a
conflict because it was a furlough day for the agency for tomorrow. So this actually has been on
the calendar all along for today. We did discuss it last week that we would be having it on the
24th, which is today. And I know that Director Guissinger, you said you might have a conflict,
but later that day you let us know that there wasn't a conflict.
So nothing has really changed about this meeting other than the fact that it didn't fit into the
original series, but it has been on everybody's calendar since the full series was sent out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, thanks. I apologize because even when I was saying I was
available, I was thinking it was Wednesday. I guess I just didn't look at my calendar that far
ahead if it was on there. And I know that Shontel-- I still have more questions. I know Shontel
does. Are we scheduled to do a final vote next week?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. This is just an update for this week.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm just wondering if we can postpone that, have more discussion next
week. I might need to set a separate meeting with Chief Grado or whoever's appropriate.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sure. Of course.
LYNN GUISSINGER: But Shontel is critical to this process, and can we push things back a
week, do another discussion round? I'd really like to understand the budget better, just the
interplay we started talking about a few minutes ago. I'd like to still understand the data, to the
extent you can get it to us, about we're taking less calls but more serious calls. I sure wish we
could trim what we're doing in the time of COVID when our ridership is down 60%. And I hear
what you're saying about we have the same facilities. It does seem like a lot less people.
So I guess my question is, what's our timeline? Can we push this out a week and have another
discussion time next week? And then could I set a meeting sometime before that, I guess, with
you, Chief?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I can't speak for Bob, but I'm sure he'll be available to answer any
questions between now-- we do have a meeting scheduled on December 2. But in that December
2 meeting, we're looking for a head nod to bring this forward as an action item in the Operations
Committee in December to be approved by the Board in the December cycle. So we do have next
week, but that is what we are looking for.
My understanding, because of the budget restraints and the budget that was lost, in order to push
this forward or make adjustments to it, they have to start working on what adjustments have to be
made for the budgets going into 2021. So we did have hopes of bringing it forward to the full
Board in the December cycle going into 2021.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would ask that Director Guissinger, if you and Director Lewis
have additional questions-- because I know Director Lewis has met with Chief Grado several
times-- that you do it before the meeting next week and then can bring it up so we can have that
discussion. I agree.
One of the big issues that has been bubbling up is the lack of data. Exactly how many more
serious incidences are happening, and how is that equating into the budget that's necessary? So I
think that there is that piece we need to look at.
The other piece that I think is going to be pretty intense in terms of a discussion is the
community-outreach information and how we do that. So I don't know if that answers your
questions, Director Guissinger, or if you have any additional questions or comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll try to set up a meeting. I'll see if Director Lewis wants to join and do
it in advance.
And then I guess as I mentioned last week, since this kind of started around the Allied Security
contract, it seems like more of a discussion of what that means before we finish our work. Makes
sense?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Agreed. Thank you.
BOB GRADO: And, guys, I just want to say I'm happy to meet with you. Let me know what
works, and I'll rearrange my schedule to do that. We have met with Director Lewis a couple of
times and happy to continue to do that. And honestly, we can do it. The ask here is really just for
a nod to get started on this. Again, it's a live document. We're going to make changes as the
budget changes.
We have, Director Guissinger-- just confirming, we've already released $6 million back. So we
have cut back. We've cut back. And if we get on a call privately, I'm happy to discuss that with
you in the areas we've cut back.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let's maybe look at Monday and Tuesday and see if we can find a time
then.
BOB GRADO: OK, that would be great, and I'll get Steve on the phone with us too because he's
running the day to day as far as the deployments go.
And, you guys, the current budget that we have right now, we can get started. And our goal is to
get 2021 completed, as we're showing it here, living within our means. We just wanted to make
you aware that there are some concerns. So we'll have to talk moving forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: That's from before. I'm good. I'm good. I'm going to talk to Dave offline.
I'm in favor of this plan. I think the guys have done a lot of work on it. I'm appreciative.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Guissinger, your hand is still up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, that's OK. All right, with that, I'm going to move it over to
clarifications. And, Chief, community-outreach information please.
BOB GRADO: Yeah. Right now, it's really a lot of ideas. And as I said earlier, we are going to
develop this as we go. So I really don't have anything else to add to that. We're all ears. We work
for you all, and I am a firm believer in community policing and community outreach. So we're
open to just about anything. We want that connection. But this is an area that we're going to need
some help on.
There are a lot of programs out there, and we have access to these programs. But I think this
needs to be developed as a transit model. So we're a little different than a lot of municipal
policing agencies.
So I really don't have a lot more to add to that except for-- and I'm repeating myself-- we're open.
We're ready to do whatever we need to do to connect with the people we serve.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I will tell you, there was a lot of discussion around
this issue the last time we met, and we talked about a variety of outreach including Facebook
Live, Zoom, telephone town-hall meetings, our reading materials, our websites, and perhaps
doing something in each district with each Director hosting a panel discussion or something
about security, what the plans are, and then to get public input is what I remember, right? Is that
correct, Director Guissinger and Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. I just want to add to that that moving
forward, what I think would be the best opportunity is to take the outreach that we know we're
already doing and leverage that because as we're moving and we're hearing Dave Jensen and Bob
Grado talk about how they're being impacted by the budget cuts, the Communications
Department is one of the departments that's losing more people than anybody else. And their
plan that was presented to the Board a number of months ago is not the plan that we're going to
be able to move forward with in 2021.
I just want to throw that out there that if we're leveraging things and we're working with
Communications in each of our districts moving forward and we'll have to socialize this with the
rest of the Board, then we have to keep Bob Grado and his team, Safety and Security, front of
mind so that we can use those opportunities to get this information out there as we're moving
along because to have something specific that, like we're talking about here, just to follow this
one process is probably not in the budget for anybody in the agency right now.
So I just want to throw that out there, and I had a discussion with Pauletta about it as well. I'm
pretty sure that we'll still be doing the telephone town halls, so we might have to incorporate this
as a component in the telephone town halls and whatever else we're moving forward with in
communications in 2021. But I think that's important to think about. Everything that we talk
about moving forward in any committee meeting or any of these smaller groups that we're trying
to make improvements to the agency, we have to take into consideration that there really is no
budget, and we have to do it in a different way, and we have to be mindful about how we couple
all of the actions that we want to take with the actions that we're already moving forward with.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Ms. McManus, I think we really clearly understand that.
But I do think that we can make those telephone town-hall meetings more informative in terms
of issues that we need public input on. And I think the telephone town hall meeting platform is
perfect to have the Chief or Mr. Meader on as well to also talk about the whole security
component, what their plan is, and see if we get any input there. But additionally, I know
Director Williams, myself, and Director Lewis have ongoing live Facebook events, and we could
just incorporate an invite maybe to Chief to come on and answer any questions there.
I'm not seeing us setting up a whole new level of information. I think we're just going to
incorporate it in where we are. And I would like to ask Director Lewis for her input in all of this

in terms of what she feels her community would like to hear. I know Director Williams, Director
Guissinger, and myself would be happy to do that as well, but I think it would be like a set
talking points that we want to send out uniformly to the entire community for input.
And, really, I think that that's it more than anything else. We just want to make sure that we get it
out to as many places as possible so that folks have the ability to do that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah and starting as soon as possible as soon as we know that this is
the plan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, correct. I agree.
All right, I'm not seeing any hands up about this, so if we could go to quarterly-- oh, Director
Williams, I'm sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: I guess just a little hand. I'm just wondering if we could look into for I think
not a lot of money into having a place on our website where we could have the TSA page or
something, and we could have live videos. We could put Bob up there once a week and let him
talk about various stuff.
BOB GRADO: I'm glad to hear you say that, Director Williams. Castle Rock Police Department
has a Facebook page that is amazing. They have a full-time Facebook officer that's posting stuff
constantly. If you guys get out there while you're surfing around on your computers, check out
that web page. They've got great videos and just a lot of community-service videos and different
things talking about elderly issues and just different things in the community.
I love their model, and I think a lot of this we could copy, paste, recreate with the existing team. I
mean, we have so much talent here.
Our web page for the Transit Police, I don't like it. There's so much more we can do.
KATE WILLIAMS: I've never seen it, and in Castle Rock, the high-school kids and the kids go
there. They go there, and they interact. That page has been up for a while. I used to run transit
down in Castle Rock, and-BOB GRADO: Oh, did you? Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. So yes, we could do something like that, and then we could have a
simple interaction with the schools because everybody's remotely now. So just something, and
I'm willing to help work on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And, Chief, if you could send us that link so we can
all see it, that would be really helpful.

BOB GRADO: I will send you that link, and I'll send you a video that their chief put out on
community policing that I fell in love with. I shared it with our communications team. They
loved it.
So again, we have Lindsay Alarcon here. She's amazing, and she's very capable of helping us
recreate the image. Right now we just have a single page, and it doesn't tell you a lot.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, quarterly update, and then I have ops
committee next to it. Chief?
BOB GRADO: I'm not sure what you're looking for-- oh, OK. I'm looking at my thing. The
quarterly update as far as the presentation, that is a piece that Mike's working on. So I do not
have that information. He was going to take ownership of that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, so if we could just table that until next week.
BOB GRADO: Yes. Hopefully he'll be better and we can share something with you on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What about the final budget discussion?
BOB GRADO: That again is another piece he really wanted to talk about. I hit on it very shortly,
but he just wanted to talk about the concerns with the cuts and then moving forward. Again, I
said I believe we can work through this with what we have. Obviously that's what we're going to
have to do.
But a big concern he had was the most recent-- the $2 million that had to be returned to the
general fund that was the vacancy fund. So he wanted to talk through that. And I wish I could
say more, but that's all I can offer right now without him.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, so Ms. McManus, I might need your help on this because
I'm feeling then we cannot go to the recommended action for approvals since we don't have those
two pieces of information. Is that your thought as well?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we still do have the meeting next week.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Correct.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And that packet will go out. That packet will go out tomorrow. So I
will work with Mike and find out whether or not those components can be in it or not, and then
we can have that discussion next week. It'll be just the overview of the white paper and those two
components that they'll be looking for a head nod for at that point in time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. I'd like to ask both Director Guissinger and
Director Williams, are you good with that?

KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, I'm OK with it. I don't know how far we're going to get with Mike
Meader. He's sick and we need to give him room to just recover.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I agree.
KATE WILLIAMS: So if we can't make it happen, then we can't make it happen.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Barbara, maybe you and the Chief can have a conversation
about a plan B just in case Mr. Meader's not well.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, we can certainly do that. When I did speak to Mike on Friday,
he was pretty close to having those documents done, but we will be mindful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, ma'am.
All right, so I'm going to just go ahead and go to other matters. Is there any other matter to come
before this committee? No? Director Guissinger? No? OK.
All right, well, our final meeting date is December 2. And then the other thing I will tell you is
that next week we will follow up on those components, and my understanding from my notes is
Director Guissinger, you and Director Lewis will meet offline with the Chief to talk about data
points and then the budget component. Correct?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. I mean, we'll try. I can do something Monday and Tuesday. I've
got to see what Shontel can do and what Bob Grado is able to do. But I guess I will shoot for
being at a point where I have questions answered before that meeting on Wednesday.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, ma'am. Marisela, do you have any comments or
questions for us before we leave?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: No, I don't think so. We distributed the white paper, and we would
ask that you review that. It is a collective document, so we really want your comments and
feedback on that. Particularly I would ask to think about the findings section, which is what this
committee is really charged with is having these discussions, having these meetings, and coming
up with a summary of what we found. And also another task is to recommend any substantive
changes to the security model, which I think the discussion is continuing next week. And I think
that's about it.
We would ask if you would get the comments in before the next meeting so we can discuss them.
I recognize the holidays, so we would just ask you to do what you can.
And then I think I just have one question about how the white paper will work-- maybe that's for
John and Barbara offline-- in terms of the packet and distributing that in the Board packet.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, with that, it is 8:54. I'd like to adjourn this
committee meeting. Anyone opposed? OK, we are adjourned. Everybody, have a great
Thanksgiving. Stay safe and healthy.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Happy Thanksgiving.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, happy Thanksgiving, everyone.
KATE WILLIAMS: Bob Grado. Bye everybody. Thank you.

