## I. Operations and Customer Service Committee

Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

### A. Call to Order

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

Staff Present:              Bruce Abel, Bob Brown, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Lee Cryer, Bob Downes, David Genova, Steve Gieske, Mike Gil, Lou Ha, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Liz Lanik, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Judy McMurphy, Brenden Morgan, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, John Perry, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Dean Shaklee, Greg Smith, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Bill Weidenaar, Dennis Yaklich

Others Present:              Marshall Crawford, Adrina Gibson, Doug Gragg, Stanley Gronek, Brad Langer, Felix Lopez, Marty Lopez, Bobbie McGinnis, Jon Mollenberg, Nick Muller, Deputy Chief Quinones, Joe Saldana, Randy Teague, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Chief Robert White

### B. Public Safety Update - Denver Police Chief - Robert White

Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede introduced Denver Police Chief Robert White and Deputy Chief David Quinones who she invited to attend the evenings’ meeting to talk to the Board about security around our stations.  Director Rivera-Malpiede commented that she and Director Deadwyler share district boundaries at 30th and Downing.  She felt that it would be a good idea to meet the Denver’s Chief of Police and some of his staff, and to have them provide an overview of how they work within our boundaries.

Chief White thanked the Board for inviting him and his staff to the Board meeting.  He noted that he was delighted to attend the meeting to share with the Board some of the challenges and the importance of the partnership that we have working with RTD.  We have an ongoing relationship with Chief John Tarbert, who hires many of Denver’s off-duty police officers.  Those officers’ primary responsibility is to patrol the bus and light rail lines.  In light of some of the more recent events, specifically at 30th & Downing, he wanted the Board to know that DPD reviews crime stats and calls for service every day.  Relative to violent crime for bus stops, Colfax and Broadway is the busiest stop.  Relative to overall crime 30th & Downing, 16th St Mall, 16 & Stout, 25 & Welton Street are active lines for them.  As the DPD looks at these statistics, they allocate resources accordingly. Chief White turned the presentation over to Deputy Chief Quinones to address particulars about some of the initiatives currently underway.

Deputy Chief Quinones greeted the Board and noted that as Deputy Chief of Operations, it is his responsibility to oversee all the operations of the police department, the patrol units, detectives, and their support units.  As Chief White stated, Denver Police continuously work to reduce statistics with a primary focus on transit routes because they recognize that they have had issues on transit routes for many years.  DPD has worked with the RTD security teams, for example, on the 1400 block of Broadway. They made some environmental changes to the stops at that location to create a safer environment.  Deputy Chief Quinones reported that Denver Police even moved one of the stops that helped tremendously in addressing some of the crime issues.  Denver Police do not just look at where there are problems; they look at where there are successes and try to replicate those successes.  A good example is the Lakewood line.

Deputy Chief Quinones shared that each week, Denver Police put their commanders in the hot seat to have them explain their crime statistics.  He asked the commander in west Denver why they are not seeing the same crime issues that are at some of the other light rail stops.  The partnerships from the design phase to the partnerships they are doing now with working with RTD security have had positive impact, so they are trying to replicate those efforts in other areas to add to the successes.

Regarding 30th & Downing, even though it is not the #1 crime light rail or bus stop in the area, it has drawn a lot of attention lately because of the video that hit the media.  That particular light rail stop was recently transitioned from District 6 to District 2, and is now under a new commander.  This action brings a fresh perspective, a fresh set of eyes to the situation.  Denver Police are working closely with John Tarbert and his team and our police will be getting trained beginning next Tuesday, to cite for minor offenses, like fare evasion.  This is an important approach.  For those of you that follow police work, if you look back many years in New York, this approach helped police get crime under control along the subways. They are enforcing the minor issues so we are taking that approach.  We are looking at things that have been found to work in the past and we are trying to replicate successes using some of those same principals.  Chief Tarbert has people ride the light rail and certain bus lines.  Also, when time permits, Denver Police have officers who will take themselves out of service, they will get on the rail at the Lakewood border, ride it down into the next police district, and then they’ll ride back and return to service, simply to provide visibility.  A lot of times, visibility itself can prevent crimes.  It’s hard to measure how much crime it prevents, but we know it does.  Denver police focus on the stops.  Certain routes will have more problems than others like Colfax the Welton light rail.  Then there are other stops that don’t cause any problems so right now so they are looking at the whole big picture.

Chief White commented that if RTD staff felt it appropriate, as Deputy Chief Quinones shared previously, every Thursday with rare exceptions, Denver Police have a core meeting, which is a meeting about crime where the commanders come in and we talk about crime, we use visual graphs so we can see where crimes are occurring, showing patterns that are occurring, and we talk about strategies, and obviously some of those strategies and crimes are around the light rail system locations and around some of the bus stops.  Chief White made an open invitation to RTD Board members and staff to attend these meetings which normally occur at 10:00 a.m. at Police Headquarters on the first floor in the auditorium.  Chief White committed to asking Chief Talbert to keep RTD posted of any meeting changes.

Chief White asked if there were any questions.

Director Menten asked if Chief White could repeat the location and time of the criminal meetings.  Chief White would provide Chief Tarbert with the information.  He recommended calling first to ensure that the meeting for that week was not changed or cancelled.  Chief White and Deputy Chief Quinones will leave business cards so that there phone numbers are available.

Director Menten commented that there was previous mention of other bus stops where there is actually more activity and she wondered what examples Denver Police have regarding these other bus stops.

Deputy Chief Quinones stated that for example, if we look at light rail stops, the way we measure crime is within either 150’ or 500’ of a location, so for light rail stations, 16 & California, 16th & Stout, and 18th & California are all ahead of 30th and Downing in terms of crime activity.  30th and Downing is actually number 4 on that list.  If we look at bus stops, we look at 150’ occurrence from a location; we’re back on the 16th Street Mall so Stout and 16th, Welton & 16th, Colfax and Broadway, and then we go out to 6200 block of Green Valley Ranch and then we’re back on the mall at 16th & Market streets.  Statistics show a YTD date 2012 comparison to 2013, with a high of 79 crimes for the number 1 crime location down to 25 crimes for the number 6 crime location.

Director Menten inquired if there would be a public document available to support these statistics.

Deputy Chief Quinones replied that the data he shared was based on a request he made for the data to bring and share with the RTD Board and staff specifically for this meeting. However, Denver Police do have the capability to pull information as needed, but do not want to stress the Data Analyses Unit too much for outside agencies, but if we have an issue like the one at 30th & Downing and want to pull history on a given location, we could request that data.

Director Menten asked if she could have the copy that Deputy Chief Quinones had brought with him for the meeting.  Deputy Chief Quinones stated that he would leave the information for Director Menten.

Director Menten asked to confirm that the range we use from a light rail station is from 150 to 500 feet, bus stop only 150 feet away?  Deputy Chief Quinones replied that they pulled the data two different ways.  The light rail stops we pulled for within 500 feet and the bus stops we pulled for within 150 feet.

Director Lubow thanked Denver Police for making their presentation.  She found it very interesting fascinating to learn from their presentation that the West rail line had some work done on it as it was being built in cooperation with police to make it safer.  Chief Quinones informed the Board that police use crime prevention through environmental design.  District 1 had some input with RTD staff on some of the issues, such as fencing, lighting for existing buildings, new builds, etc.

Director Lubow shared her gratitude for the relationship between RTD and Denver Police, noting that RTD is building out quite a lot and hopes that as we continue to do so we will continue to work with and have collaboration with Denver Police about ways to make our lines as safe as possible.  In particular, Director Lubow wondered if Denver Police discussions with Lakewood Police gave some ideas to put into 30th and Downing that might help to make that area safer.

Chief White noted that was one of the conversations that took place with the District Commander.  Looking at crime, Denver Police have been able to say to Lakewood Police that they’ve been pretty successful as it relates to crime around light rail system, so we’ve been able to ask what Lakewood is doing that perhaps Denver can try to replicate at other locations.  Police do that with crime in general, looking at different neighborhood crime at different locations.  When police find that something is working in one area, police try to incorporate that outcome in other areas.  This is some of the discussion that occurs as a part of the regular meetings we have each Thursday so police can monitor what is working and try to replicate those productive strategies.

Director Lubow asked if Denver Police could share what some of those productive strategies have been.  She wondered where police have had successes that you are thinking of trying at other locations like 30th & Downing.

Deputy Chief Quinones responded that in District 1, which is where the Lakewood line runs, it runs along a bike path for a lot of parts of the line.  So the police district committed to providing a lot of bike patrols along the bike path with frequent stops at the light rail stations. The officers, as noted previously, will take themselves out of service, jump on the rail at Sheridan, ride it all the way in and then ride it back.  This provides a lot of visibility.  If there is graffiti, they jump on the graffiti right away to remove the graffiti.  These may not all be the same issues, different call loads at different parts of the city.  Some things may work one place and not another.  The reason this popped up on our radar, as Chief White alluded to, is because at one of our weekly meetings we have maps that we look at that show hotspots.  One of the things that jumped out at us was the Lakewood’s light rail route had no hotspots.  As we noted this, we then had conversation about why police where not seeing crime along this light rail area as we see in other rail areas.  Police are putting a lot of different efforts into 30th and Downing.  It is not just the district; the gang unit is also focusing a lot of attention there.  We are doing numerous overtime grants from various funding sources, specific to 30th & Downing.  This area is a concern to us and we are dedicating a great deal of resources to it.

Director Lasater questioned inter-jurisdictional cooperation, noting that he’s seen situations where when core cities do active enforcement, the action pushes the crime out.  Director Lasater commented that RTD have a number of municipalities and counties along the entire RTD District lines and he wondered if police have shared or done any trending when they’re doing enforcement, to track or report if activity is moving east, west, north or south; he wonders if we work with other municipalities on this tracking.

Chief White responded that yes, police share inter-jurisdictional cooperation in a variety of different ways.  As the Chief of Police, he meets every month with all the metro area Chiefs that are within a 100 mile area.  Parts of our conversations are about strategies.  We share things that we’ve done that might push crime in to another county, or things that police in another county have done that might push crime in to the Denver area. At a more operational level, Deputy Chief Quinones and his staff  meets with individuals that are out there doing the work, meeting with then on a regular basis and they have conversations, especially as it relates to Aurora because that’s our largest partner and probably the closest to us.  We have ongoing conversations with Aurora, Adams County, Jefferson County and other municipalities to make sure that they are not infringing on our citizens and that we are not infringing on their citizens.  We all work on the same task forces addressing common issues that impact all of us.  Criminals don’t have any lines of demarcation; they go where they feel they have opportunities.

Chief Tarbert reiterated what Chief White and Deputy Chief stated that police do cooperate with everybody and with all the different agencies.  Chief Tarbert is on the metro chiefs meeting every month along with Chief White.  Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED) is our philosophy and always has been at RTD.  We deal with every agency where we have new construction going through, not just police but fire departments too.  It’s all part of a big committee and we do all this stuff together all the time.  At the Welton corridor, security recently met with Commander Calo who is in charge of that district now.  Security has partnered with him and his impact teams.  These are the first teams we are going to train on fare enforcement and get them involved doing the same things we are doing, but in a different way.  We have already reassigned all our plain clothes off-duty Denver police that work for us on a daily basis to the Welton alignment to back them up.

Chief Tarbert commented that beyond that, security has community outreach meetings.  Security has gone to three so far in the last 2 weeks and we’ll continue to do so as a partner with Denver and with other communities, whether its Aurora or Lakewood.  We do have contracts with Lakewood and Aurora cops now working for us off-duty also.  Chief Tarbert reported that he started a bike team just about a month and a half ago on a security contract which has twelve officers are out there, two at a time, 24-hours a day on bikes that can be sent anywhere RTD operates.  Right now they are riding in the Welton Corridor quite often, but they do ride through Lakewood by the bike path with starts in Denver but ends in Lakewood.  They are making a significant impact on finding a lot of bad guys because the bad guys don’t see or hear them; it’s a little bit different than patrol cars.  The partnerships are there, we do as much as we can together, and if there’s another issue that rears its head, we go after it, and that’s the best way to get it done.

Director Solano inquired if Denver Police are implementing new district lines at 30th & Downing.

Chief White responded yes, Denver has gone through reorganization within the department, we are really intelligence driven.  Every single day we look at crime, we look at various patters.  We look at neighborhood integrity.  It had been 15-20 years since we had looked at those geographic boundaries and how we allocated resources.  Approximately 9 months ago, we determined we needed to change the geographical areas, we went through a major reorganization in an effort to put officers out when and where crime is occurring.  This is a significant change from how we’ve historically operated in the area; a lot of things were previously managed based on seniority.  We’ve changed the days off and the district boundaries and we are also committed to bringing integrity into the neighborhood.

Director Solano questioned if Denver Police might have some inefficiencies going on in the implementation process, such as planning, organizing, directing, etc.  He asked if there could there be a disconnect there.

Chief White reported that no, there are zero deficiencies.  He reported that what is going on there is some resistance to change, but there are zero deficiencies.  All the changes shared with you are a result of detailed analyses and the need to go in that direction.

Director Solano commented that he though he heard earlier security are looking at minor crimes, like fare jumpers, where people are trying to board the train and ride for free.  He wondered how that is working out in terms of trying to alleviate other crimes being committed.  Deputy Chief Quinones commented that this is Chief Tarbert’s area, and that as mentioned previously, Chief Tarbert will be training officers on how to issue those citations starting next week to discourage them from being on the rail.

Chief Tarbert added that plain clothes Denver officers have made more arrests doing plain clothes work doing fare enforcement, because that’s originally how they contact the people, but we keep finding people that have warrants and guns and drugs in their possession and they get arrested on the spot.  This action makes the public that is on the trains and also the operators feel more comfortable because they see more bad guys being taken off in handcuffs.

Director Folska commended all the Chiefs and RTD security and thanked them for all the hard work that goes into keeping our communities safe.  She mentioned that she attended, along with Director Tobiassen, the active shooting seminar workshop that RTD Chief Tarbert offers for free.  There were about 50 to 60 people in attendance at this class.  It was a fantastic class; she really appreciated the class and learned a lot.  She reported that she is always thinking wherever she is.

Director Folska shared that a concern at RTD as a Board has been partly due to process.  RTD’s communications department is incredibly on top of things but she noted that one thing that caught the RTD Board members and staff off guard is that recently, staff didn’t receive that information in a couple of instances where our videos went to media before RTD staff where even informed.  Staff saw the events on Channel 9 news.   Director Folska asked the Denver Chiefs if they could address that issue.

Secondly, Director Folska noted that perhaps in San Francisco the police department is doing sort of a smart phone hotspot where you can know instantly where clusters of crime might be being committed.  She wondered if Denver police know about that technology and what their opinion is of that type of technology.  Finally, Director Folska wondered if it would be useful for RTD as a body to understand the things that security are doing on a quarterly basis, such as the information about when you check for fare and end up making an arrest on another matter.

Chief Tarbert addressed the phone application noting that he is currently trying to reprogram a grant that he currently has to make sure that monies are used in the best manner possible.  One of the things we are looking at is a mobile smart phone app that is free to the public that instantaneously contact our security command center where you can send a photo, a video, you can text them, or there is an extra button where you can instantly dial 911 immediately, whichever they need to use if they are in the system.  Chief Tarbert thinks this type of mobile app is a great idea.

Chief White commented that as it relates to the video at 30th & Downing, he just wanted to note that police maybe go to 400,000 calls a year and obviously there are occasionally mistakes made along the way.  We have to make a decision on whether police are going to put out a video versus a crime alert.  A crime alert would be paper that would have very clear visual of the individuals that are committing the crime, perhaps versus a video that has a lot of information, shows the incident, but doesn’t clearly show the individuals that are directly involved.  To be candid, every single day we probably have hundreds of videos from different incidents that occur.  But when you look at those videos, you see that there is really no benefit to the community because it is not showing us anything that will help us make an arrest. If there’s something that we think the community needs to be made aware of, we issue out a paper crime alert and it will go out through the media.  That video from 30th & Downing, in hindsight, probably would not have been released before a crime alert.  What was helpful as related to that case was to get a clear picture of those individuals that had committed that particular crime; we were able to get that as a result of other information that we received.  The video did not clearly address identity.  There was a mistake on our part as it relates to that and if in fact we were going to release the video it should have been released a lot earlier than it had been.  Chief White expounded that he thought he even stated on TV that the video should have been released sooner.  Denver Police dropped the ball as it relates to the releasing of the video.  More importantly, the crime alert should have gone out even before the video because the crime alert had much more detailed information.

Director Folska thanked Chief White for his explanation but noted that her question has more to do with the process between Denver Police and RTD Security.  She commented that it is wonderful that police do all this great work and that they put the information out there because it solves crimes, however; she wondered about the process of sharing information between Denver Police and RTD staff, and specifically about what may have changed or fell apart in that regard, as it relates to the 30th & Downing incident.

Chief White reported that the instance can happen in one of two ways.  An incident could occur that would prompt Denver Police to request access to video in an RTD location, or RTD could contact Denver Police advising us that RTD staff have information for the police.   That is the ongoing relationship that we have. Sometimes other people might make a request for information and Denver Police may not even be aware of that request.  The process didn’t occur in the manner it should have occurred, and it was Chief White’s opinion that this was part of the problem as it relates to the video at 30th & Downing. He noted that this is not something that occurs with any frequency.   We do have a process and is works very well. Normally, every time a crime occurs around a location where RTD has a camera, our detectives will automatically contact RTD and make a request to get video.

Director Folska thanked Chief White for his feedback and she acknowledged how well the process normally works, noting that it works so well most of the time that when the occasional one or two incidents occur outside the normal process, it is a bit surprising to staff.  Chief Tarbert reiterated that Denver Police and RTD staff communicates all the time.

Director Daly inquired if there were any West corridor stations noted on that list.  Chief White responded that they didn’t notice any West line stations on the list, but would leave the list for Director Daly to review.

Chair Anderson thanked Denver Police for being at the meeting this evening.  Chair Anderson was interested in getting a breakdown of crime statistics between persons and property, and whether the victim/perpetrator is known to each other, or if these crimes are random attacks.

Chief White replied that most of the crimes are property crimes, which is a crime against property or theft.  There are also some crimes against persons.  Chief White noted that the breakdown of this information would also be left for RTD’s review.  Chief White commented that the biggest challenge Denver Police have as it relates to numbers is at the bus stop at Colfax & Broadway, which is a major thoroughfare and the busiest intersection in the city as it relates to violent crime at bus stops, it is the number 1 location.  As it relates to the rail system, it would probably be the 16th Street Mall.  There are a lot of other shops and activities located in this area so the crime on the 16th Street Mall is not necessarily specific to the light rail stations.  It could be related to any number of things in the same area.

Chair Anderson noted that she was trying to find out regarding the crimes against persons if the victim and perpetrator are known to each other or are these attacks random.

Deputy Chief Quinones noted that it is all of the above.  Some crimes are random attacks on unsuspecting people.  Some people walk down the street holding their smart phone or tablet and they get just get assaulted for a robbery.  Some are known because maybe they are engaged in some activity they shouldn’t be in and it doesn’t work.  Some are between friends; it’s really all over the board.  Perpetrators are looking for people they can victimize easily and escape from as quickly as possible.  This is not unique to the Denver area.  Denver Police recently requested a report from the cops office in Washington DC, which is community oriented police and symposium on street robberies because we are finding street robberies are on a bit of an increase for us here.  When we look at street robberies and we look at locations where they might occur, it is mass transit lines, entertainment districts and parking lots.  This activity is nationwide; it is not unique to Denver.

Director Deadwyler also wanted to thank the Denver Police for coming out tonight and she apologized for missing the beginning part of their presentation.  Director Deadwyler noted that she would like to know more about the redistricting boundaries for 30th & Downing as she stated the location is in her district, District B, and there have been problems there for at least the last 40 years.   What does redistricting mean?

Chief White reiterated his comments of earlier in the evening, that 30th & Downing was in the 6th district and is now in the 2nd District.  Every so often most departments do or should look at their demographics, looking at geographically how they allocate their resources.  They look at where the crimes are occurring, the types of crimes that occurring, the day of the week they are occurring, if you look at the 6th district, which is a very very busy district, you would determine to add more resources to that district are we need to divide some of the challenges as it relates to this stats.   As a result of that internal audit, we moved that location to district 2, under the command of Commander Calo.  There is a litany of different strategies that we are trying to utilize on this area.  We are putting a significant amount of resources here as compared to the past.  We agree with you that there have been some really unique challenges related to this area.  We are utilizing a variety of different strategies; we are adding a lot of resources.  Time will tell how effective those strategies are working.

Deputy Chief Quinones replied this question was answered previously for Director Solano.  The redistricting was something that hadn’t been done in at least (28) years, we looked at the workload, the geographic makeup of the district, we redistributed the workload and we redistributed the resources.  As a result in 2013, with 60 fewer officers on the department in 2013 than we had in 2012, we had an increase of 41% of proactive police activity at 30th & Downing alone. We see this all over the city.  The productivity has virtually doubled as a result of many of these changes that have been implemented since Chief White arrived here in 2011.  We are striving to be more efficient with the limited resources we have to work with and we are seeing positive results from these changes.

Chief White commented that for individuals that are saying that they are not seeing a difference, he requested that staff have those individuals call him.  He welcomes hearing them and will put them in touch with the 2nd District Commander, and will have him have a detailed conversation with you about exactly what we have been doing, what we are currently doing and what we still plan on doing as it relates to 30th & Downing.

Director Deadwyler appreciated that and noted she would probably have some suggestions.  She asked Chief White if they could go back to talking about process.  Director Folska spoke about process and she wondered about what we are doing especially as it relates to the two incidents that happened in that area. We talk about the video cameras a lot and the concern is about being proactive versus reactive.   When video is held like that, it didn’t go well.  My question is why can’t we just put out a paper blurb so people will know they need to be alert?   A lot of people down there where really upset because they didn’t know what was happening.  In terms of process, this Board should be notified first if it is happening on our property, we should always get this information as quickly as possible.

Chief White stated that he agreed 100%, and reiterated as he stated earlier that as it relates to that specific incident; Denver Police could have managed that particular situation much better.   Chief White stated that Denver Police are making changes to mitigate that issue to make sure it doesn’t occur again and he advised Director Deadwyler that the police do put out crime alerts out on a regular basis.

Director Deadwyler wondered how it was determined what information would be shared with or release to RTD.  Chief White responded that he didn’t’ know how many different ways he could apologize as it relates to the incident at 30th & Downing.  Denver Police should have gotten out a crime alert much sooner, and he noted that they dropped the ball as it relates to the timeliness in getting that information out.

Director Deadwyler appreciated Chief White’s comments.

Director Rivera-Malpiede extended her deepest appreciation to Chief Tarbert, Chief White and Deputy Chief Quinones, noting that she has worked with Denver Police department longer than she cared to mention; however, she did share that they are a great collaborator with the community.  Director Malpiede extended an invitation to any of the Board members to participate in District Commander roundtable meetings and to be a viable part of the community.  She noted as citizens; we can do a ride along with patrol cars.  Director Malpiede shared that she has done that herself, just so she could understand how the system works, what the call loads are like. There are a lot of proactive things going on in our communities and there are things as Board members that we can do.

General Manager Washington commended Chief White and noted that on behalf of the RTD staff, we do appreciate Denver Police joining tonight’s meeting and being our partner for these number of years.  General Manager Washington noted that Denver Police have been a great partner with our fare enforcement generally and in helping us to manage crime in our areas.

Committee Chair Tobiassen echoed what General Manager Washington stated and said that he and all the Board really appreciates the great cooperation between Denver Police and RTD.  He looks forward to that continued relationship in the future.

Chief White stated that the Denver Police is committed to continuing their partnership with RTD and they understand the importance of working together.  Chief White made note that the Denver Police Department’s whole focus is crime prevention, to keep crime from occurring. He stated that it is Denver Police Department’s goal is to be in the very best position possible to provide the best support to RTD and all of its districts and stations.

#### 1. Award Contract to Purchase Video Event Recorders for Bus Safe Driving Management

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award the contract to SmartDrive Systems of San Diego, CA, for the purchase of up to 600 event recorder systems and five (5) years of managed services to host and review data, provide event management in web application and produce driving behavior reports to allow coaching of drivers on safe driving and accident reduction.

Motion:              Director Folska made the motion to move this item to the full Board at the November 26, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:              Bruce Abel gave background that the event recorder system is a system that staff have demonstrated at several of our operating locations over the past several years.  An event recorder is a system whereby we have cameras placed in the vehicles that look both outward and inward, the cameras are connected in to a computer system, they are triggered by G-Force so that when any sudden event occurs, it will trigger the recorder to record for 15-20 seconds either side of the event, so something like a sudden stop or an accident, the recorder would be activated.  The operator can also trigger the recorder.  We have found this to be a very effective coaching tool it provides improved security and safety.  We were very pleased with the demonstrations.  We put out RFP’s and we received proposals from the firms that we are aware of in this business.  Tonight we request Board approval to move forward with the acquisition.

Director Solano inquired where the cameras would be installed.  Bruce Abel replied that the recorders would be located on every bus.

Director Daly noted that he thought the privates do have the recorders but wondered that RTD do not have any of the recorders.  Bruce Abel reported that Director Daly was correct.  The privates began deploying the recorders several years ago.  It’s something we’ve been working through the strategic budget process and we have been successful in identifying funds through the long range budgeting process and funds are available now so we are requesting authorization to move forward with this acquisition.  Staff found the recorders to be a very effective coaching tool, both for operators and managerial staff.

Director Tobiassen mentioned that he did get to see the recorders demonstrated out at the East Metro garage and he shared that he considers the recorders to be an extremely effective tool; they are good for the drivers, and they protect the drivers, acting as a witness when things do happen.  It also allows management to counsel drivers when they might have some risky behaviors.  Supervisors are getting reports next morning to address prior day activities; these recorders work quite well, almost in real time, and Director Tobiassen is happy to see them.

Director Deadwyler noted that she was looking at the table and she was wondering how many buses RTD have.  Bruce Abel replied that we have a fleet of approximately 1025; the private fleet has already been equipped through the private contractors. The RTD fleet is approximately 600-ish.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

#### 2. Award of Access-a-Ride Services Contracts

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into contracts for the provision of Access-a-Ride services using dedicated (RTD owned) vehicles with MV Transportation, Horizon Coach Lines, and Via Mobility Services. These contracts are for three years, with two one-year options for a 5-year, with a cumulative not-to-exceed cost of $145,700,972 for Access-a-Ride service and $28,125,117 for Access-a-Ride fuel, for a total not-to-exceed amount of $173,826,089.  The contract amounts by service provider are as follows:  MV Transportation - $66,279,862 for service, $14,062,559 for fuel, for a total not-to-exceed amount of $80,342,421; Horizon Coach Lines - $42,484,584 for service, $7,031,279 for fuel, for a total not-to-exceed amount of $49,515,863; and Via Mobility Services - $36,936,526 for service, $7,031,279 for fuel, for a total not-to-exceed amount of $43,967,805.  The committee further recommends that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the provision of Access-a-Ride services with non-dedicated (contractor provided) vehicles with Veolia Transportation on Demand.  This contract is for three years, with two one-year options for a total 5-year, not-to-exceed amount of $9,811,727.  Fuel for this contract is included in the total contract price.  These proposals represent the most responsive and responsible proposals received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 13-DH-035, to provide Access-a-Ride Services.

Motion:              Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to move this item to the full Board at the November 26, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:              Bruce Abel commented that as the Board is aware, access-a-Ride is our complementary paratransit service for individuals with disabilities as mandated by the ADA. RTD have been providing this access-a-Ride service since approximately 1994.  In our current model, we have a number of contractors engaged to provide the service.  First Transit is our call center contractor, they take the calls from our customers and they do the reservation schedule and they provide the manifest and send these out to service providers.  We currently have 4 service providers under contract to maintain and operate the vehicles to provide the service itself.   Those 4 contractors are:

MV Transportation, providing approximately 50% of our service hours; VIA (previously known as Special Transit) providing approximately 1/6th of our service hours; Global Transportation is also providing approximately 1/6th of our service hours; and Horizon Transportation providing approximately 1/6th of our service hours.

The contracts expire at the end of the year and RTD put out an RFP providing opportunities for people to bid on either half, a quarter, or a sixth of our service.  This allows RTD staff to evaluate the proposals and the costs to determine what is the most cost effective packaging for the provision of these services in terms of cost of serviced for RTD. Back in the early years when the program was smaller, RTD had only a single provider; subsequently that single provider experienced some internal failures placing RTD in a bad position and so since that time have employed a multiple service provider model so that we always have a backup in place should one of our providers experience difficulties.  The move from 5 providers to 4 providers 6 years ago provided a more cost effective model.  We were paying less overhead, fewer management teams, and fewer facilities.  With the result of this procurement, we see that moving from 4 providers to 3 providers will save RTD between $4.5 and $5 million.  Our recommendation is to move forward with 3 providers instead of 4 provider efficiencies paying for fewer facilities and fewer management teams while still providing the redundancy, the backups and safety nets in terms of the provisions of service.

Director Folska wondered if RTD have been able to maintain costs to provide the paratransit service, whether costs have increased or if they have stayed the same.

Bruce Abel reported that costs continue to increase. Staff has been able to slow the rate of growth, but growth does continue and costs increase accordingly.

Director Folska inquired if Global Transportation has gone away.  Bruce Abel responded that Global will continue to be a service provider until the end of this contract.  Staff will have a transition from 4 providers to 3 providers. Global did not provide a proposal on the 25% alternative.  Our cost analysis showed that 3 providers with 50, 25 and 25% was more cost effective than having more providers doing less each.  Global did not propose a 25% option.

Director Folska asked Bruce Abel if he could please provide a review of what paratransit means.  She noted that there was a prior recommendation which referenced “not to exceed” on certain cost amounts; she thought this pertained to fuel.  Director Folska wondered if this service is mandatory complementary paratransit service, what the consequences are.  Director Folska asked for a description of paratransit, Access-a-Cab and Access-a-Ride so everyone is all on the same page.

Bruce Abel explained that Access-a-Cab is RTD’s paratransit service.  This service is what we refer to as cutaway vehicles that carry about 14 people.  Regarding Paratransit, another acronym is demand response transportation.  Bruce Abel shared that staff really work in two worlds, one which we call fixed route-fixed schedule; these are the big buses that operate along pre-determined routes according to pre- determined schedules.  Paratransit service is where an individual calls up and requests a ride and the ride is scheduled is to pick them up at their curb at their arranged time.  A separate trip is scheduled for their return home.

Bruce Abel noted that when he refers to Access-a-Cab, that is a complementary program, a user side subsidy program where individuals who are certified to use Access-a-Cab, (because it is a program for people with disabilities) they can, if they choose, use a cab instead of the paratransit service.  They can call up and request a cab ride.  These riders pay the first $2, RTD pays the next $12, and the customer pays anything over a $14 fare.

Director Folska then asked Bruce Abel to confirm if what staff were really looking at was a cost to RTD of either $12 or $50 something.  Bruce Abel confirmed that RTD are up in 50’s for the paratransit service and the third component that is part of this motion is what is referred to as non-dedicated service, with Veolia Transportation On-Demand (which is the owner of yellow cab) to provide cab service, not as a user side subsidy, but on a contract basis so that there is a flat fee and we would us the cabs to supplement the core service so that we can meet the peaks and valleys in a more cost effective way than having a vehicle sitting out there when there is no one scheduled to use it.

Director Folska thanked Bruce Abel but did want to return to the issue if they exceed the gas costs.  Bruce Abel replied that staff monitors these costs continually and report back to the Board monthly and staff have indeed slowed the rate of growth over the years, such that we’ve come in under budget every year for about the past 4-5 years.  Bruce Abel commented that if staff sees something in the community where growth is exceeding staffs projection, staff would come back during the budget amendment process because the ADA does require that we have a zero denial approach to the provision of service.

Director Deadwyler wondered with regard to fuel, if our contractors operate on the same fuel rate as RTD, or do they have to find their own fuel rates with their own contracts.

Bruce Abel explained that contractors do not get the same rates as RTD.  On the fixed route side, we contract for diesel fuel and that contract does include our fixed route service contractors.  On the paratransit world, Bruce Abel shared that there are different levels of sophistication; some contractors buy fuel at the pump because they are smaller; some have their own facilities such that they can have fuel delivered to them.  Due to the nature of differences in size and scale of the operations, not all of them have their own fueling capacity on site.  We reimburse their fuel expense, but they do not participate in any contracts with RTD.

Director Deadwyler questioned that since we reimburse their fuel, would it not be cheaper if they purchased their fuel from RTD, or if RTD expanded our contract to include access-a-Ride vehicles.  Bruce Abel responded that RTD do not even have a fuel contract.  Staff competitively procure our diesel and have a far more limited procurement of gasoline, but again, the real bottleneck is that not all the providers have  capacity to have fuel to be delivered to them because they are a smaller scale operation and do not have the facilities to receive bulk fuel.

Director Deadwyler asked if the contractors could come to RTD and fill up and Bruce Abel shared that contractors cannot get their gasoline or diesel directly from RTD because of tax implications.  RTD is allowed to purchase tax-free fuel, contractors for the paratransit services are not.

Director Solano asked for clarification on the RTD owned vehicles that are leased out to the contractors to use while providing RTD services, and whether the vehicles ran on diesel or on gasoline.

Bruce Abel confirmed that the vehicles are owned by RTD and leased out to the contractors to perform services on behalf of RTD; the vehicles use gasoline fuel.  Director Solano also wondered about who pays for the maintenance on the leased vehicles.  Bruce Abel explained that maintenance is part of the contract.  The contractor pays for the maintenance and it is part of their bid price to RTD.

Director Sisk asked for clarification on the contractor percentages stating that RTD have 50% going to MV Transportation, 25% to Horizon and 25% to Via Mobility, but in fact Via Mobility service is about $5.5 million less than Horizon?  Bruce Abel confirmed that was true.  Director Sisk noted that would mean that Via Mobility is providing the same service as Horizon for $5.5 million less than Horizon; Bruce Abel confirmed this was true and stated this was part of the procurement process.  Staff requests that contractors provide RTD their bids to provide service and there are a variety of reasons underlying why people have different cost structures.  Director Sisk shared that his point was parochial and noted that Via being a Boulder entity, providing the same services for $5.5 million less than Horizon.

Director Tobiassen asked if the Veolia’s non-dedicated vehicles will be wheelchair accessible and is Yellow Cab.  Larry Buter stated that the RFP requested that 25% of the vehicle fleet be wheelchair accessible.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

#### 3. Amendment of ADA Contracts for Call-n-Ride Service Awards

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to amend the new ADA paratransit services contracts with MV Transportation and Via Mobility Services (per solicitation #13-DH-035) for the provision of Call-n-Ride services. The amendment to the MV Transportation contract is for three years, with two one-year options and shall not exceed $19,039,885 for the 5-year period for Call-n-Ride services.  The amendment to the Via Mobility Services contract is also for three years, with two one-year options and shall not exceed $8,692,084 for the 5-year period for Call-n-Ride services.  In addition, these contracts will include a cost for fuel which will be treated as a pass through expense.  The total 5-year estimated cost for Call-n-Ride fuel for MV Transportation is $3,333,539 and for Via Mobility Services is $1,380,399. The total 5-year not-to-exceed cost for MV Transportation is $22,373,424.  The total 5-year not-to-exceed cost for Via Mobility Services is $10,072,483.

Motion:              Director Sisk made the motion to move this item to the full Board at the November 26, 2013 Board meeting

Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:              Bruce Abel stated that staff is requesting an approval of an amendment to the new ADA Paratransit services contracts with MB Transportation and Via Mobility Services for the provision of Call-n-Ride services.  He explained that staff included Call-b-Ride services in the Access-a-Ride services RFP because past experience has shown that the cost of Call-n-Ride service is lower when combined with Access-a-Ride service because of reduced overhead costs.

Director Folska asked if Call-n-Ride services help to solve the last mile problem.  She also wondered if RTD gets support from businesses and the communities to help defer the cost of the service.  Bruce Abel commented that he hates to call is a problem; this is a solution to help people fully utilize RTD’s services.  He said that staff has a history of securing financial support from the communities.  He stated that staff always reaches out to the communities and municipalities with varying results.

Director Solano asked if the packages were based on need in specific areas.  Bruce Abel said that implementation of Call-n-Ride was based on need but the packages were created to provide logical service areas that minimize overhead costs.

Director Deadwyler noted that there were not packages for Denver or Aurora.  She wondered if they were not able to get Call-n-Ride.  Director Deadwyler expressed concern over Green Valley Ranch and their expansion.  She shared that she has been hearing from the citizens that they want Call-n-Ride in their area until it can be served by fixed routes.  Bruce Abel explained that Call-n-Ride is oriented to areas in the District where there is low population density and transit demand meaning that fixed route service is not supportable.  He stated that Call-n-Ride service was in Denver and Aurora but over the years the ridership grew developing into fixed route service.  Bruce Abel said that expanding into new areas is an issue that RTD is constantly facing.  Staff has to balance meeting the challenges of facing expansion within RTD’s finite resources.  He stated that Green Valley Ranch is not the only community asking for new or expanded service.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED>

#### 4. Award Contract to Supply 125 – 40’ Low-Floor Transit Buses

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to Gillig LLC for the purchase of 125 – 40’ low-floor transit buses and associated spare components in the amount not to exceed $51,800,000, with an option to purchase up to 307 additional 40’ buses over a five year period.

Motion:              Director Deadwyler made the motion to move this item to the full Board at the November 26, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Daly seconded the motion.

Discussion:              Bruce Abel explained that RTD was at the point where we needed to move through routine replacement of our 40’ sub-fleet.  He stated that the useful life was generally 12 years and staff has extended that to 13 or 14 years.  He said the financial plan now allows for RTD to begin replacement of this fleet.  Bruce Abel shared that an RFP was put out requesting proposal for Clean Diesel, Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and Hybrid buses so staff could have fact based analysis of the different technologies.  He stated that the Hybrid option was easy to remove due to cost impacts, operating efficiencies and fuel efficiencies.

Bruce Abel noted that the prices of CNG have come down dramatically so it merited an in depth analysis between Clean Diesel and CNG.  He explained that in moving forward with CNG there would need to be additional investments in various improvements that would cost approximately $48 million.  Based on that capital cost and operational savings, staff base a number of fact based assumptions to calculate the breakeven point, which would be 13 years.  Bruce Abel pointed out to the Board that at this time within the industry there is acknowledgement that there is very little difference, if any, in the emissions between the two technologies.  Bruce Abel stated that based on this analysis staff is recommending that RTD move forward with Clean Diesel.  He said that even if the 13 year breakeven was deemed acceptable, RTD has no way of getting $48 million to invest in the necessary improvements.

Director Deadwyler expressed concern over the capacity of the vehicles.  She noted that we already have an issue of space for our disabled riders and passengers with strollers or other large items.  She believes we should be looking as expanding our storage capacity as we purchase new vehicles.  Bruce Abel explained that capacity is a non-issue as we move to answer the question of fuel source.  He stated that RTD has the ability to change our seating configuration regardless of the vehicle we acquire.  The seating configuration is really a constant balancing act between overall ridership and people with disabilities, strollers, etc.

Director Solano asked if the buses will be used by contractors or just as part of the RTD fleet.  Bruce Abel said that staff attempts to maintain a balance between RTD and contractors in terms of age of fleet so they will be used by both.

Director Lubow noted that if we were purchasing vehicles purely on air quality impacts it would be the same for either technology.  She said there used to be a lot of hoopla about CNG being better but that is no longer true.  Dean Shaklee said that since about 2010 the technologies have been almost the same.

Director Hoy wondered if the Board authorized the purchase of 125 new vehicles, would RTD park or sell 125 old vehicles.  He also wondered if this action was authorizing the purchase of 125 or the option of an additional 307 as well.  He asked if at the time of the option CNG was determined to be the better technology could the decision be made to switch.

Bruce Abel explained that the procurement policy is that when RTD replaces a vehicle the old vehicle goes to auction.  He said in this situation we will buy 125 and retire about 115 as staff wants to have a small spare ration.  Bruce Abel stated that if staff recommended moving forward with the option that would also come back to the Board for approval.  Dean Shaklee said that the contract could always be modified to not move forward with the option but there will be a cost increase.

Director Hoy noted that the cost of CNG was going down.  He asked if this is just a blimp or a trend.  Dean Shaklee said it is a highly volatile technology.  Bruce Abel stated that there has been an increase in production which has led to a price decrease.

Director Lasater expressed concern over selecting Clean Diesel.  He noted that diesel is historically tied to the international market.  It is extremely more volatile than locally provided natural gas.  He stated that natural gas is a local commodity that we have here in Colorado that RTD can count on.  Director Lasater commented that if there are any more global conflicts, gas and diesel will be dramatically more volatile than anything that is locally available, like natural gas.  Director Lasater pointed out that the reports show diesel fluctuating while natural gas continually going down.  He said that he also is skeptical of the equivalent life expectancy.  He noted that diesel deteriorates equipment more rapidly than gas.  Director Lasater agrees that electric is the way of the future but he does not agree with some of staff’s assumptions comparing diesel to natural gas.  He stated that he is not happy about this recommendation and will be voting no.  Director Lasater thinks CNG should be given stronger considerations in staff’s evaluations.

Director Folska asked for a Study Session to understand the balancing act for changing the seating configuration of the buses.  Director Folska wondered if there was a regular percentage of vehicles that are in like shop being worked on.  Dean Shaklee stated that RTD has a better than 20% spare ratio.  He noted that there are always buses being worked on whether this is preventative maintenance or vehicles being hard down.  Dean Shaklee commented that the only time RTD does not have enough buses is for Monday or Thursday night football games.  Bruce Abel noted that the FTA gives guidance as to the spare ratio RTD should maintain as well as the replacement schedule.  He said RTD always tries to comply with industry best practices.

Director Deadwyler reiterated her concern for capacity.  She noted the 40’ buses we use today do not accommodate people with disabilities or women and children.  She believes we should be looking at purchasing larger vehicles.  Bruce Abel stated that 40’ is the mainstay of our fleet.  Dean Shaklee noted that 45’ buses are not made; 40’ is as long as we can go unless we go to a 60’ articulated bus.  General Manager Washington said that part of what must be taken into account is financial ability.  If RTD buys more 60’ buses we do not have the budgetary capacity to purchase many of them.  He stated that RTD has the budget to purchase what staff is recommending.  He said that while RTD is concerned with the disabled community there is also budgetary restraint.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

#### 5. Paratransit Service Extension and Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to extend contracts with Horizon Coach Lines and Global Transportation for the provision of Access-a-Ride services and with Via Mobility Services and MV Transportation for the provision of Access-a-Ride and Call-n-Ride services for a period of three (3) months at the following not-to-exceed costs.  For Access-a-Ride services:  Horizon Coach Lines – service $1,385,003, fuel $207,513, total $1,592,516; Global Transportation – service $1,343,251, fuel $207,513, total $1,550,764; Via Mobility Services – service $1,386,102, fuel $207,513, total $1,593,615; MV Transportation – service $3,676,213, fuel $622,543, total $4,298,756.  For Call-n-Ride services:  Via Mobility Services – service $358,632, fuel $60,444, total $419,076; MV Transportation – service $824,052, fuel $150,659, total $974,711.  The cumulative total not-to-exceed costs are as follows:  Access-a-Ride service $7,790.570, Access-a-Ride fuel $1,245,081 and Access-a-Ride total $9,035,650; and Call-n-Ride service $1,182,685, Call-n-Ride fuel $207,356 and Call-n-Ride total $1,390,040.

Motion:              Director Folska made the motion to move this item to the full Board at the November 26, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:              Bruce Abel explained that staff is requesting the potential extension of the existing Access-a-Ride and Call-n-Ride contracts for a period of 90 days to provide the flexibility needed to ensure RTD has adequate and appropriate time to move from the existing  model to the new model.  He indicated that staff may or may not exercise the extension but is requesting the option should it prove necessary.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

#### 1. Smart Card Project Status Update

Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that he has been hearing very good things in the field about SmartCards.

Judy McMurphy, SmartCard Project Manager, said that was music to her ears.  She noted that in the last meeting there were questions about work being done with the platform validators.  She shared that between now and the end of the year staff will be working on network connectivity at Sports Authority Field.  She stated that staff has learned that hard wiring those validators will allow better customer service.  The bandwith is being taken up by all the cell phones so this should help to alleviate the problem.  Judy McMurphy said that staff will also be repositioning the validators and Colfax and Auraria as well as doing an additional installation at 30th and Downing.

Judy McMurphy shared that staff will also be looking to install additional validators in the beginning of 2014.  Staff will focus on Southmoor, 16th and Stout, Orchard and 27th and Welton.

Judy McMurphy stated that staff just completed the Retail Point of Sales (RPOS) testing.  She said the test went very well and there were only two things for the vendor to change.

Judy McMurphy noted that all the work with the subject matter experts in done on the Website.  Xerox had the document outlining the changes which they are now working on.

Judy McMurphy said that the end of year process with CollegePasses and EcoPasses was proceeding well.

Director Deadwyler asked if the cards could be demagnetized.  Judy McMurphy stated that if you put the card in the microwave it could be demagnetized.  She said that most frequently, people will have too many cards in the badge holder which will prevent the card from reading.  She stated that otherwise staff has not heard of issues with the cards being demagnetized.

Director Deadwyler asked about the schedule of installation for new validators along the Welton corridor.  Bruce Abel reiterated that 30th and Downing will receive another validator by the end of this year while 27th and Welton is scheduled to get one in 2014.

Director Sisk commented that he is thrilled with the SmartCards and the way it has been implemented.  He asked when implementation would be fully complete as people are very excited.  General Manager Washington stated that Phase III, which is total completion, is scheduled for early 2015.

Director Folska concurs with other Board members.  She shared that everyone that call her loves the cards.  She did ask about some validators being inaccessible to people with wheelchairs; this is something she heard from someone.  Bruce Abel stated that staff was not aware of any but would certainly go back out with an eye to that issue.  General Manager Washington stated that all of our stations are accessible.  He has not seen a validator that is inaccessible but staff will review.

General Manager Washington noted that the situation in Chicago and some other cities is the reason why staff is being very deliberate and prudent in the phased installation.  He stated that so many transit agencies have fallen down on this technology and staff does not want that to happen at RTD.  The goal is to have no catastrophic failures when this system is brought online.  General Manager Washington thanked Judy McMurphy and her team for doing such a great job.

#### 2. Update on DUS Service Change Meetings - No Back Up

Jessie Carter informed the Board that staff has already started the Denver Union Station (DUS) public meeting process.  He said the first meeting was last Friday and about 30 people were in attendance.  He noted that was a great turnout for a Friday night meeting.  Jessie Carter noted that Director Tobiassen and Rivera-Malpiede were also in attendance.  He stated that staff would be continuing the process tomorrow with two additional meetings.

Jessie Carter shared that at this point most of the concerns center around the introduction of two way bus traffic on 18th Street.  He said that staff hopes to hear from more of the commuters who will be affected by the move from Market Street Station to DUS at the upcoming meetings.

Committee Chair Tobiassen informed the Board that Rob Rynerson is an amazing walking encyclopedia.  He really knows the history of RTD.

Director James shared with the Board that DDP is watching the two way street process very carefully as they are concerned about the input from the neighborhoods.

#### 3. DesignLine Update - No Back Up

Bruce Abel noted that as staff informed the Board in August, Design Line filed for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy.  He said that staff has been working through bankruptcy court to follow the proceedings.  Design Line had until October 31st to secure a potential purchaser.  Bruce Abel stated that the assets and intellectual property were purchased by Wonderland, a financial investment company.  He said that Wonderland did not purchase RTD’s contract so staff thought we were in the clear with our outstanding contract; however, the court advised RTD that Wonderland had an extended period to consider contracts they wished to pursue.  He explained that Wonderland met with staff last week and indicated there are three contracts they are interested in pursuing: New Jersey, Montreal and RTD.  Bruce Abel shared that staff had been advised by New Jersey and Montreal that Wonderland has breached contract.  He stated that RTD does not wish to be their sole remaining contract but it must work its way through bankruptcy court.

### E. Other Matters

Bruce Abel stated that information on the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) was being released by the Boulder Camera.  It had been staff’s intention to present this information at the next Operations and Customer Service Committee but were instead reviewing it now.

Bruce Abel said that the unveiling of the name was being released prematurely; however, he wanted to provide a brief review of the surveys that were conducted as part of the vehicle selection process.

Dennis Yaklich, Manager of Market Research, informed the Board that in order to involve the customers in the selection of new vehicles, 3536 surveys were distributed the week of September 5th on the BF, BMX, and BX routes that provide the majority of service along the upcoming US36 BRT corridor.  He said this represents approximately one survey for each passenger on each runoff each flavor of the route B.  Dennis Yaklich shared that 933 customers, or about 28% of all surveys distributed, responded to the survey. He noted that this is a great response rate giving RTD highly accurate results.  He explained that customers were presented with an illustration of each bus type and a balance description of the relative advantages and disadvantages of each type.  Dennis Yaklich stated that 86% of customers prefer a coach, 10% prefer a low-floor and 4% indicated no preference.  He informed the Board that the vast majority of customers indicated a preference for a coach no matter their demographic characteristics or usage characteristics.   He noted that customers were also asked to evaluate vehicle characteristics or attributes independent of the overall vehicle selection that were important to them.  Customers were most strongly attracted to seat comfort, space for belongings and shorter travel time.  He commented that bike capacity was also very important.  Dennis Yaklich stated that Wi-Fi was evaluated as being more attractive than a vehicle’s appearance or branding but less attractive than comfort elements and space for belongings.

Bruce Abel stated that the essential question that was posed for the US36 BRT corridor was customer preference for a coach bus that is operated on regional routes today versus low floor that is common to other BRT routes today.  He said that staff wanted to get the customers perspective rather than rely on other transit agencies data.

General Manager Washington told the Board that this information had just been shared with the US36 technical team today.  He explained that the reason staff is coming to the Board at this point is because the Board will have to make a decision on the buses for BRT in the next few months.

Director Bagley asked for the percentage of riders that use bikes across the entire system versus the US36 corridor.  Dennis Yaklich stated that in general, the proportion of customers that used bikes over the past 12 months was 7% while along US36 it is about 17%.  He said that in terms of overall boardings he does not have that figure available; however, he said that those that use bikes do so regularly.  Director Bagley noted that 7% in 12 months is a small fraction of the riders using bikes.  Bruce Abel commented that there is a much higher percentage of bike utilization in the US36 corridor than anywhere else in the system.

Director Hoy shared that when he was greeting people at the Westminster Park-n-Rides he noticed how full the luggage compartments were with bikes.  There would already be 10 bikes in one compartment and people would be putting more bikes in.  He believes that you do not see this anywhere else in the system.

Director Sisk pointed out that tonight’s information was just meant to inform the Board.  He noted that the information is still being compiled and reviewed with stakeholders and through the Northwest Area Mobility Study.  He believes it is important for stakeholders to be present when this is a formal discussion with the Board.

### G. Adjourn

Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 7:45 p.m.