2022-05-24
Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: Good evening, everyone. And thank you for joining us. I'm going to call the Board
meeting of May 24th to order at 5:31 PM. I respectfully ask everyone to mute themselves, and remain
muted until you're recognized to speak. Thanks for joining us.
And remember, that all of our Board meetings are being held remotely in the interest of public health,
safety, and welfare. The official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom, and will be
audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will
be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. You can visit RTD-Denver.com. And a
livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to enhance and
maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective duty to our
constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual respect,
cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are values we can all agree upon.
As such, I encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board, and act in
accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website.
Thank you very much. Next up is our Pledge of Allegiance. And Director Bouquet is going to lead us in
the pledge. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQET: Thank you, Chair. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And
to the Republic, which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Jerry,
you're muted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Jerry, you're muted.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Gotcha. Thanks for that, Director Bouquet. and Secretary Sloan will now lead us
in the land acknowledgment.
MARJORIE SLOAN: It's my privilege. Thank you, Chair Buzek. The RTD Board of Directors
acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains operate is a traditional territory of the Ute,
Cheyenne, Arapaho and other contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We
honor our indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and
plains throughout generations. May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to
dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of the Native, and all historically oppressed peoples, and
recognize their current and future contributions in the district as we move forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Secretary Sloan, for that. The next is the roll call. Ms. McManus, would you
please call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQET: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell. Director Guissinger. Director Lewis.
TROY WHITMORE: I'm sorry. Director Lewis just sent an urgent message. Her computer decided to
reboot. She was with us. She'll be right back.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. We'll try her at the end.
TROY WHITMORE: Why she picked me on a technical issue, I'll never know, because I'm no expert. But I
digress. Sorry, Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Shara Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Currently, nine present, and we have a quorum. We welcome Director Lewis
when she's back on.
VINCE BUZEK: I show 11 present, and three excused, and one temporarily missing. And there's Director
Lewis right there. She's there.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. I got 12 and three excused absences. We do have a quorum. Thanks
so much for that. Next, is retiree awards. And there are no retiree awards this evening. Second quarter
awards will be announced at the June Board of Director meeting.
Next, is our public participation segment, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board. If
you wish to speak, and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand, or press star 9 on your
phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your
mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do
not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has
documentation or reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit
written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at RTD.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names. And each speaker will have up to three minutes to speak. Ms.
McManus, do we have any speakers in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have no speakers in the queue. And we have no responses via the email.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. With no participants in the queue and no email comments, we will not close the
public participation period.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Excuse me, Chair. We do have a hand up at this point in time.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, great.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I see Roger Sherman is looking to be recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Mr. Sherman, please state your name and give us your comments.
ROGER SHERMAN: Good evening, Roger Sherman, 3530 East 8th Avenue, Denver. I'm obviously with
CRL Associates. I just wanted to take a couple of minutes. And this is a different way to address the
Board.
But we, as you know, will be leaving our role at the end of next month. And I wasn't 100% sure that I
would be in town for next month's meeting, so I just wanted to take a minute to thank all of you and the
agency for nearly 17 years of collaboration. We're excited for the future of RTD. We're not going
anywhere. We continue to be huge supporters, advocates for transit and transportation, and are working
very hard with Catalysts on the transition.
They're an excellent firm. We've worked with Cinnamon, and Jennifer, and their team on a number of
projects over the years. So we're going to make sure that all of the work that we're doing is handed off
seamlessly to their organization, and continue to be available to answer questions, and help of course,

any time, even after June 30. So I just wanted to acknowledge and thank you all, and have a good
meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Sherman. On behalf of the Board of Directors, we thank you for your and
CRL's service to RTD over these many years, and look forward to continue working with you on other
matters as we move forward. Thanks so much. Any other speakers for public comment?
Seeing none, I'll close the public participation period at this time, and move on to External Entities Report.
The Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee, APAC report will be presented by Mr. Tex Elam. Mr
Elam, are you there? And the floor is yours.
TEX ELAM: Mr. Chairman, I am here.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Go right ahead, Tex.
TEX ELAM: I'll do it. I'll pull up my script. Where are you script? I'll be talking about five items as updates
from our APAC meeting. First, is on wayfaring, an implementation survey is going to take place.
Wayfaring, as you know, is where you have instruments to show you where you are, and where you want
to go.
RTD has a number of such services available. And of course, we handicapped are very pleased to have
them. Because of that, they are about to start another survey to improve the wayfaring situation. And that
will be taking place shortly.
Second item is the Uber Pilot Access On Demand program. Use of the Uber Pilot program is very
popular. Between January and May, there has been a 37% increase on wheelchair accessible vehicle
use. That's important as a measure. Approximately, 30 to 50 people joined the system each week. And by
now, approximately 20% of all service of Access-a-Ride is available on that service.
Third item, the current Access-a-Ride provider contracts terminate as you know, this October. RTD staff,
including a non-voting APAC member is in the process of getting started with the solicitations and review
periods, and that recommendations will be made of course to the Board in a couple of months. The fourth
item is RTD has begun as I believe you all know, a fair and equity study. The new hire has made
recommendations and comments to our committee. It was a useful dialogue.
We are fully aware of the efforts being made to include non-standard people who are working, and have
different organizational needs, and have been marginalized in many previous studies. The RTD Board
will, of course, receive the results of the study in 2023. Staff has inquired about several items to our
committee. Access-a-Ride Consumer Portal has been established, and staff is trying to determine what
the hookups and problems are in the study.
Thus far, we learned that a large number of we members have not yet fully entered with the new portal.
And that's because of some of the confusion and misinformation being provided. Staff is working very
hard to remedy all situations, and we are all looking forward to activities taking place through the portal.
Mr. Chairman, that's the end of my comments. I'll be available if there are any questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Elam, for that thorough and concise report. Do any Directors have any
questions for Mr. Elam at this time? I see no hands raised. So Mr. Elam, thank you again. And the Board
thanks you and the committee for your continued hard work.

Next, is the Advisory Committee for people with disabilities, ACPD. And they do not have an update for us
this evening, but will be presenting a report next month of June. The Citizens Advisory Committee, CAC,
does not have an update either this evening, and will also report back to us in June.
Next, we go on to committee reports. I understand the Audit Ad Hoc committee does not have a report to
share with us this evening, but will have more news to give us next month. I'll move next to the TABOR
Ad Hoc committee report. Directors Cook and Broom, do you have anything that you would like to report?
BOB BROOM: Ladies first. I'm hearing nothing.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're muted, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. I'd like to defer to Director Broom, who handled the meeting. Plus, I've
been out of town until-- this is my first full day back. So I didn't prepare for an update.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, thank you. Well, I'll give a brief report then. We made it a regular monthly meeting
this past month. And we're proceeding with obtaining input from outside experts, and reviewing some
information that staff provided us. And we hope to begin to put some things down on paper at our next
meeting for forwarding to the Board for future guidance and approval. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that report, Director Broom. Next, is the Finance and Planning Committee
report. Committee Chair Davidson, do you have anything you'd like to report?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. Good to see you all. We, the Finance and Planning
Committee met on May 10th earlier this month. We had a number of items, including three recommended
actions that are on the unanimous consent agenda this evening. I'll touch on a couple of the things we
discussed.
First of all, we did receive as a discussion item an update on our account-based ticketing system from Ms.
Tanya Anderson. We talked about the progress that we're making, and the target of implementing our
account-based ticketing system in the summer and fall of this year, which was presented as an optimistic
timeline. We had some discussion around the August, the Zero Fair August providing us some
opportunity actually to implement some of the account-based ticketing system. There will be more news
to follow as the project develops.
We then moved into our recommended action discussions. First of all, we did vote unanimously to move
forward with the recommended action that's on tonight's agenda to reinstate the Board travel expense
reimbursement. We also then received a update from Mr. Carl Green regarding the MyRide stored value
discount, Title VI fare equity analysis. This is also on the unanimous consent agenda, and was also voted
on unanimously by the committee.
We received an update regarding the elimination of the stored value discount of the MyRide cards as we
move into our account-based ticketing system. And our analysis shows that this does comply with Title VI.
So the committee did vote to move forward.
We also were presented with the recommended action regarding the Colorado 119 bus rapid transit
implementation. And the committee did vote unanimously to move forward with authorizing the CEO and
General Manager to enter into all required contracts, IGAs, or inter-governmental agreements, and

associated amendments to design, construct, and operate the project. We did have an amendment from
Director Dishell to clarify some of the language stating explicitly that this is for the Colorado 119 BRT
project. The committee also unanimously accepted that amendment.
We had finally, a discussion item regarding an update that Mr. Van Meter led us through to update us on
the Reimagine RTD process, regarding both the SOP, or System Optimization Plan, as well as the
mobility plan for the future. We had a rather lengthy discussion after receiving this update. What I would
say is for Directors not on the committee that weren't present who are curious, it may be worth watching
when the video is released, that portion of the recording.
It does sound like we will have quite a bit to discuss at our June study session that's forthcoming on
Reimagine RTD on the System Optimization Plan on the mobility plan for the future. Rather than go
through exhaustively all the things we discussed, I just would mention that there are some items, there
are some themes just in terms of seeking alignment from the Board that I think might be worth looking at.
In other matters, we did have an update from Director Sloan, who addressed a prior discussion item we
had had regarding providing zero cost fares on election days, and had suggested that RTD may engage
with adding ballot drop boxes at RTD location.
So we'll be hearing more from staff, from CEO and General Manager Johnson, from her team regarding
both the efforts of adding drop boxes for ballots at RTD locations, as well as recommended next steps on
zero fares for election days. And with that, our next meeting for the Finance and Planning Committee will
take place on Tuesday, June 14. Look forward to seeing those of you that will be attending. Thank you
very much, Mr. Chair. That concludes my report.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Davidson for that report. Any questions for Director Davidson? That
was a very thorough report. Thank you very much. We'll move forward to the Operations and Safety
committee report. Committee Chair Rosenthal is not present. I believe is it Director Williams that is the
Vice Chair of that committee? Director Williams, do you have anything you'd like to report with regard to
the Operations and Safety committee?
KATE WILLIAMS: I do not have anything to report, Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much. Next, is the Performance committee report. Committee Chair
Lewis, do you have anything you'd like to report?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No report, but just a quick reminder for folks that the Performance committee is going
to be meeting on June 1 at 1:30. And all Directors are always invited to that discussion and that
conversation. I mean, we'll be grounding ourselves in the General Manager's contract, and those success
outcomes. And so would love to see your smiling faces on the Committee on June 1st. That's it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And thanks to you and Director Dishell for your work on that committee, doing a
good job. So next is the approval of Board meeting minutes and committee reports. The Board committee
meeting minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from Directors?
Seeing none, unless there's an objection to considering these minutes all at the same time, I'm going to
ask for a motion to approve the following meeting minutes. April 24, 2022 Board meeting, May 10, 2022
Finance and Planning Committee, May 10, 2022, Operations and Safety Committee, May 19, 2022,
Executive Committee. Is there a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.

VINCE BUZEK: Tisdaled moved, our second by?
JULIEN BOUQET: Bouquet.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Bouquet. Thank you, Directors. Any discussion on the motion? Are there any no
votes? Seeing none, that passes unanimously 13 to zero, I think. OK.
Moving on to the Chair's report, and that's me. So just want to report that from Sunday, May 15 through
Tuesday, May 17 I attended the IBTTA, that is the International Bridge, Tunnel, and Turnpike Association
Road Use Charging conference in beautiful downtown Denver. Road use charging is a very interesting
concept, been around for quite some time, particularly overseas, where it's a given.
And its concept of using a variety of different methods to capture and charge people who use our roads.
And most of it is through an account-based system that monitors your odometer. And believe it or not, a
lot of currently manufactured vehicles already have the capability to do this with the flip of a switch.
There's always been a sense of dread, or what it might be, but some people have a problem with the
possibility of the government knowing where you're going.
And that is not what happens with this technology. It's simply an odometer that's being monitored
somewhere. We already have tracking devices that we carry with us everywhere.
So very interesting, because transit is a key component to a successful road use charging program. And I
know Second Vice Chair Catlin knows all about this, and can give a better report than I can. But very
interesting, because people have these accounts. And you can very easily incentivize transit so that
people don't have to use their cars and be charged their are road use charges. So transit and a road use
charging program really go hand-in-hand.
Colorado had a pilot program several years ago on road use charging, and was going to have phase two
of the pilot program that would expand its breadth and scope. But with a change in administration,
different focus was undertaken. And so that's kind of been put on the shelf, but without a doubt, will be
coming back. Because with the gas tax not changing for 100 years, and the Highway Users Trust Fund
being depleted constantly, and not meeting any threshold of taking care of our roads, highways and
bridges, road use charging is probably going to be the wave of the future, and a great opportunity for
transit to be a part of that solution.
Next, on my report is our Executive Committee meeting. We had an action item of sorts to add to the
agenda Director reports. And thank you, Director Tisdale, for bringing this forward. So in the past, we had
Director reports, and we had them in a variety of different ways. Sometimes, it was under other matters.
Sometimes, it was new business and old business.
But now, we have added to the agenda, as you will see tonight, a special spot just for Director reports.
And just remember because there's a spot on the agenda for Directors reports, you don't have to give a
report. I know we're all elected officials, and it's hard to pass up not to speak. But if there's nothing to
report, you can just pass. But obviously, we want to hear about what's going on with you in your districts,
and keep us all apprised of all of that.
We also had a robust discussion about bylaw updates and changes, and more to follow from that. And
there'll be some things coming out of the Executive Committee in that regard. We also talked about
recruitment for a replacement for the Board Office Manager. That being said, Ms. McManus has indicating
that she's going to be retiring toward the end of the year, or early part of next year.

And to make sure we have somebody on Board to fill that gap, the Executive Committee is going to begin
discussing the process. And it may involve an internal process to look for somebody, or it may involve the
hiring of a recruiter to do that. We haven't made that decision. The first thing we're going to be looking at
is the job description of the Board Office Manager, and determining whether it meets our needs as the
Board, or if we need to change that in some fashion.
And I have alluded to this in the past, and as part of that bylaw change, I am going to hopefully, sometime
soon be bringing forward a recommendation that the bylaws be made clear, and any changes,
appropriate changes made so that this position is a direct report to the Board and only the Board, that the
Board hires, and evaluates, and retains that Board Office Manager, because that position arguably
reports to us. So we've got this kind of solid line and dotted line kind of thing going on now. I think in the
org chart, I want to get rid of the dotted line. So we'll see what you guys think, but we'll be bringing that
forward sometime in the future. That's all I have for my Chair's report. I will turn this now over to General
Manager and CEO Debra Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair, and good evening to all of you all. As introduced, I'm
Debra Johnson, the General Manager and the CEO. So this evening, I will share with you the following
information centered around our strategic priorities. Speaking to community value, I will discuss some
speaking engagements I participated in on behalf of RTD, as well as my induction during my recent
attendance of a transit related conference and to the Board of Directors of the leading Transportation
Association focused on diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging. And also, my involvement with the
leadership after project regarding training to sustainability.
Regarding both the community value and customer excellence strategic priorities, I will touch on staff's
efforts to prepare for RTD's zero fare initiative in August. Michael Davies will further speak to external
efforts regarding the zero fare grant program created by Senate Bill 22-180 during his government
relations report, immediately following my comments. And lastly, I will speak regarding the employee
ownership strategic priority, and will touch on the agency's ongoing COVID-19 pandemic processes and
responses, as well as staff efforts regarding the 2022 employee survey. And lastly, a group orientation
session among agency and Union leaders regarding the changes incorporated into the recently adopted
collective bargaining agreement with ATU10-01.
On Tuesday, May 3, I was invited to participate in the latest of HNTV's Think, which is an infrastructure
forum series of national discussions with industry thought leaders engaging an important discussion
about the opportunities and challenges facing transportation during the Denver Metro region's rapid
growth. The forum brought together transportation leaders and professionals, regional leaders and
experts that also included Phil Washington, the CEO of Denver International Airport, Doug Rex, the
Executive Director of Denver Regional Council of Governments, Adam Phipps, the Executive Director of
Denver's Department of Transportation and Infrastructure, Shoshana Lew, the Executive Director of the
Colorado Department of Transportation, and AT&T Senior Vice President, John Barton.
The forum was facilitated by CDOT Commissioner Karen Stuart. The discussion generated ideas, led to
new connections, and further conversations to move the state and region forward on important and timely
issues. On Thursday, May 5th, I addressed the Denver South Economic Development Organization to
discuss, among other topics, Metro mobility and air quality changes-- well, changes as well as
challenges-- in addition to working cooperatively to create and sustain a welcoming transit environment.
Later that day, I, along with Bill Sirois, who serves as our Manager of Transit Oriented Communities
visited business leaders from the city of Aurora on a tour of portions of the city to examine future

development and partnership opportunities. And later, still on May 5th, Interim Police Chief, Deed Martin
Dono and I spoke with the community partners roundtable to share insights regarding developments and
improvements taking place at Denver Union Station and the surrounding area. This past week, I attended
the WTS, which is the Women's Transportation Seminar International Conference held in Seattle,
Washington, during which I and 12 other transportation leaders were honored to be announced as the
2022-2024 WTS International Board of Directors.
WTS's international mission is to attract, sustain, connect, and advance the careers of women in the
transportation industry. The WTS International Board of Directors is the governing body of the
organization, developing strategic direction, setting policy, and providing governance and oversight for
WTS International. The Board oversees the organization's strategic plan, annual operating budget,
among other fiduciary responsibilities. The incoming Board is historic in that the representation of the
women in the industry is reflected among the Board members, both in terms of racial diversity, and the
even split among those serving in public agencies and private sector firms.
Further during the conference, I participated in a panel discussion among transportation CEOs moderated
by WTS International President, Jannet Walker-Ford, in which the group discussed topics ranging from
equity and infrastructure, resilience, and sustainability, workforce challenges, data management, and
innovation and technology. I also engaged in the Executive Women's roundtable, which provided WTS
executive members an opportunity to current challenges, opportunities, and trends in transportation, and
in being a female leader in a male-dominated industry, and to discuss experiences and best practices for
retaining and advancing women in transportation. Additionally, I participated in a panel to discuss the
topic of exploiting disruption to create resilient transportation systems.
Earlier today, I was able to pay it forward by engaging with participants in the leadership APTA program,
whose group project focused on transit sustainability. For those not familiar with the program, Leadership
APTA focuses on developing visionary and resilient senior and executive leaders for the transit industry.
Since its inaugural class, approximately 600 APTA members have participated in Leadership APTA. And
exceptional individuals have made significant contributions to APTA, the industry, and their own
respective organizations. The participants with whom I met earlier today represent public transit agencies
in Houston, Chicago, and Washington DC, as well as public transit consultancies.
Regarding internal efforts to prepare for Zero Fair August, staff is diligently working on behind the scenes
logistics. According to the Colorado Energy Office, official steps to proceed with the zero fare grant
program cannot take place until July 1st, 2022, which is the start of the state's fiscal year. Once the
program opens for applications, the agency will need to be prepared to process the documents legally
required to implement the zero fare program. Staff will be bringing a recommended action for Board's
consideration in the June meeting cycle, which will allow RTD staff to plan and act efficiently regarding
the other critical aspects of implementing a successful zero fare August.
Additionally, internal planning efforts are taking place with regard to communications, planning, and
marketing. But these efforts cannot proceed in earnest prior to July 1, the official date as I just stated, for
reimbursement of RTD costs to implement the zero fare program in accordance with Senate Bill 180. For
instance, the agency will be producing a communications plan, and will hold meetings with key
stakeholders that can help communicate and market a successful zero fare program. Stakeholders can
include, but are not limited to TMOs, and TMAs, Dr. Cog, the Metro Mayor's Caucus, CDOT, local
municipalities, just to name a few. Staff's comprehensive implementation plan will be communicated to
the Board as additional details are available.

With respect to the agency's ongoing COVID-19 pandemic responses, health data now shows a steady,
or increasing rate of COVID-19 cases in most counties throughout Colorado. In the counties served by
RTD, the rolling seven day averages have in most cases, more than doubled since recent lows
experienced in March and early April. While the BA.2 omicron sub-variant continues to account for the
majority of new cases in Colorado and surrounding states, a new sub-variant of concern is poised to
become the most prevalent strain in the coming weeks.
Health officials are reporting the highly transmissible new strain labeled BA.2.12.1 is capable of causing
both severe, as well as mild breakthrough cases, the latter of which can present symptoms mimicking
those of seasonal allergies, including a scratchy, or sore throat, and a runny nose. Thus, it is important to
be aware of those indicators to continue good hand-washing and physical distancing practices, and to
wear a mask if you experience any symptoms associated with the flu, seasonal colds, or seasonal
allergies. Though, I should note that no state or federal mask mandates are currently in place for public
transit.
Other new COVID-19 sub-variants have also been identified. And preliminary data suggests that these
strains are even better than earlier variants in evading immunity offered by vaccines and prior infections.
While we have all adapted over the past two years to accommodate the presence and impact of COVID19 in our daily lives, we should all continue to remain vigilant to existing and emerging threats posed by
the variants in all its forms. The leadership team and I will continue to monitor health data in state and
federal guidance to determine whether additional revisions to masking, building capacity limitations, or
other health protocols are important.
Now, I'm going to transition to talk about the 2022 employee survey. Members of the leadership team and
I each visited multiple operating facilities and administration offices throughout the district to engage with
employees and encourage their participation in the employee survey, which was conducted for a two
week period beginning Monday, May 2nd, and running through Friday, May 13th. Specifically with respect
to the strategic priority of employee ownership, the team and I garnered vital feedback and understanding
regarding employees concerns and pain points. The results of the survey will be used to establish a
baseline for numerous metrics driving this priority.
I personally found these visits to be an excellent opportunity to engage in candid and open conversations
with members of the team regarding their jobs, as well as opinions, perceptions, and attitudes regarding
RTD. Internal work groups will further analyze the data and determine best practices in order to move the
needle to enhance employee ownership, which of course, is one of our strategic priorities adopted by this
Board throughout the agency. On Thursday, May 5th, I, along with a number of senior staff members
engaged with leaders from the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 10-01 in a joint labor management
orientation session regarding the recently adopted 2022-2024 collective bargaining agreement.
During this important session, participants reviewed in depth the changes from the previous CBA, as well
as the collective bargaining process, the bargaining environment, and the current CBA's alignment with
the strategic plan. As the review of the CBA is in an ever-growing process, participants were called to
consider future enhancements, such as service delivery, sustainability, and operational efficiencies,
employee ownership strategies to the three R's of recruit, retain, and reclaim, our workforce, and quality
of life, and support enhancements, and opportunities for collaboration, and leveraging data gathering
efforts to support further improvements. So with that, Chair Buzek, I conclude my remarks. And I would
like to yield the floor so that Government Relations Officer, Michael Davies, can provide his report. Thank
you very kindly.

VINCE BUZEK: That's great. Would you like to take questions now, or after Mr. Davies?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh sure. I'm amenable. I see Director Broom's hand is up.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, let's take questions now. Director Broom, go ahead.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just had a question about COVID. Are the glassed stand cubicles
being maintained on buses? And if we get new buses, are we adding those? Or what is the status of that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, if I may, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Director Broom. Thank you very much for the question you posed. And as it
relates to the operator compartment, those will be sustained as we go forward and we procure new
vehicles.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Broom. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr Chair. Debra, one question, timing wise on kind of testing the
collective bargaining agreement, and its effect on retention, and then obviously hiring, it's obviously I
guess too soon to look at retention yet, but I'm just curious when you think that we will know a little more
about that factor, hopefully, of the new agreement. What would be probably a test timeline in your mind?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. Mr Chair, if I may, Director Whitmore, in relationship to your
question just for context, when we bring on operators, their training period is for eight weeks. And we
bring on rail operators, or train engineers, that's for 10 weeks. And so recognizing that we just put these
wages in place just a little over six weeks ago, I would believe that we would probably see the fruits of our
labor, no pun intended, most likely in the fall, probably October, November time frame.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Very good. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have a comment, and then a question. My comment
is to our General Manager and CEO to say a hearty congratulations on these amazing boards that you
are participating in. And not just boards, but that your voice and leadership for the nation based on the
work that you're doing here in the Metropolitan area in our district is outstanding. And so I want to
congratulate you on that. That's no easy task. And you know, you've been here for almost two years. But
boy, you've really hit the ground running. And I just want to congratulate you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. My second is my question has to do with the employee surveys.
I remember the last employee survey, and it was no bueno. And so I'm wondering if the Board will be able
to see the survey responses from the employees in terms of how they're feeling. So all the metrics that
you're looking at, will the Board be able to also see that report? And do you know when? Thank you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Rivera-Malpiede, for your comments. I appreciate
those very much. As it relates to the employee survey, as indicated, that is one element of our strategic
plan. And just in preparation with Performance Committee Chair, Shontel Lewis, we reviewed that
yesterday. Recognizing the employee survey was intentional, as we aligned it with the operator bid, or
what we call here as the Run Board. We wanted to ensure that we garnered participation. That's why we
did it for a two week period, and engaged.
And so to answer your question, as we go forward, yes, we will take that information. It's done in an
anonymous fashion, because we didn't want anybody to be fearful of any type of retribution or retaliation.
And as we look at it collectively, that will help us discern what our priorities will be as an organization as
we move forward. So that information will be forthcoming as that data is synthesized. And we won't have
the information readily available when we go before the Performance Committee in June recognizing that
we just concluded last week. But it would be our intent to bring that information forward in the fall as we
report out on performance, because we would be establishing the baseline pursuant to what we agreed
upon for the strategic priority of employee performance, so we can garner how we're moving the needle.
Does that answer your question?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, just one follow-up. Since you've shared this with Director Lewis I'm
assuming through the Performance Committee, will the Performance Committee be discussing it in
Committee for Board members if they choose to attend, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, that's correct. I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yep. It's one of the many things on the agenda. But yes, that's correct.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. And thanks for those comments. And again, I'm sure a lot of us concur,
Ms. Johnson, with regard to congratulations with all the accomplishments. I believe we have a former
WTS Woman of the Year on our Board of Directors, Director Catlin, if I'm not mistaken. So it's an honor
and well-earned. So moving on, we're going to move to Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer for
your report, sir.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, hello, Chair, members of the Board, Michael Davies Government Relations
Officer. I was not able to give my Government Relations report during the Executive Committee, so I
appreciate the opportunity to give it during the full Board here. I'll just give a brief report on federal, state,
and local matters.
Starting at the federal level, I just want to focus on the credit risk premium return, which is essentially the
down payment that RTD made on the USDOT loan for the redevelopment of Union Station. On May 19,
USDOT formally sent the letter to RTD to facilitate that return. So I think we can all mark this as a big step
in the close to near end of this saga. So we will keep the Board up to date, and certainly look forward to
getting that done very quickly here.
Moving over to the state matters, on May 11th, the General Assembly adjourned for the year. Both of the
bills that the RTD Board supported did pass the General Assembly this year. I'm going to start with HB22-10-26, which is the tax credit for employers that was passed. That bill has not been sent to the
Governor yet. We'll continue to track that, and obviously, keep the Board up to date.

Moving over to SB-22-180, and building on a General Manager Johnson's comments, we have been
working very closely with the Colorado Energy Office as they prepare as General Manager Johnson said,
they can't formally put out the application, and sign IGAs, and go through everything until July 1. But they
are working diligently and doing everything they can to prepare and make sure that they can facilitate this
as quickly as we can as well. So communication has been very good with them, and really appreciate
their staff's work to work through all the logistics, and make sure that we can implement this successfully.
And then just lastly, touching on the local issue, I just want to focus on we had an initial conversation with
the Executive Director of the County Clerks Association. I noted this in my written report. And the
conversation, very positive. They look forward to working with RTD. And we're going to work to find a time
to convene all of the County Clerks for the RTD region and hold one meeting. And the County Clerks
Association is working to implement that.
One thing I didn't include in my written report and just want to note is that included in the agenda of that
meeting will be the Dropbox item. And they also had a very positive response about that, and look
forward to using that meeting as a means to have clear communication on how we can work together with
them on that item. So with that, that concludes my report. I'm happy to take any questions. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for your report. Does anybody have any questions? Director Whitmore?
Treasurer Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Just one point I wanted to add on to the report is, we certainly owe a debt of
gratitude for Congressman Ed Perlmutter and his staff, namely Jeff O'Neill, who's leaving the
congressman's employment here very shortly. They have been steadfast in their work with our federal
lobbyists. And those two individuals out of D.C. have done yeoman's work as you all know from many
years of hearing from it. But I think we may have cartwheels from Patty Deutsch when this actually comes
to fruition judging from her mood this morning in the call. So cheers to that staff, and obviously, to
Congressman Perlmutter. We're going to miss him. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Treasurer Whitmore. Director Tisdale?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Michael, in Ray the ballot drop boxes-- I know
that in the past and Henry Stopplecamp had expressed various concerns that needed to be addressed
before we could agree to have ballot drop boxes installed at our stations. I just want to know have you
had an opportunity to discuss those concerns so that they can be brought to the attention of the County
Clerks when you meet with them?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for the question. Ms. Johnson, would you like to respond?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much. And thank you, Director Tisdale, for the question. And I
would like to share that during the course of Director Rivera-Malpiede's tenure we had all convened
including Mr. Stopplecamp, General Counsel Schneider, and myself, and had conversations regarding
the drop boxes. And those issues were brought full circle, and conversations had ensued relative to
positioning drop boxes, where they in camera's view, who would be responsible? And so we work that
through.
And there is a template that was created by our General Counsel as it relates to any type of legal
responsibility going forward. So that has already been mitigated. And I will yield the floor to Mr.

Stopplecamp or Ms. Snyder if in fact there's further elements to add that I may have not touched upon. So
thank you very much, Director Tisdale, for the question.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Henry Stopplecamp, AGM of Capital Programs. Ms. Johnson, I think you got it
perfectly. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: I see the thumbs up from General Counsel Snyder. So good work. Director Tisdale,
thumbs up from you too. Thanks. And thanks for Debra Johnson and her team, prior Directors, I know
Marjorie Sloan has been working on this pretty diligently too. So thanks for all the hard work everyone has
put into making that happen.
So OK, that takes care of the General Manager report, Government Relations officer report. We move
now onto our unanimous consent agenda. There are four items on the unanimous consent agenda. Listed
under item Roman 16 as actions A through D, those items are 2022 Board travel expense reinstatement,
MyRide stored value discount Title VI Fare Equity Analysis, CO-119 bus rapid transit BRT
implementation, 2022 Title VI program update. If anyone has a change to, or has questions on any of
these items, please feel free to advise me at this time, and I will, of course, be happy to pull it from
unanimous consent agenda for consideration under recommended action.
Anybody want to pull any of these matters off the consent agenda? See no hands raised. We'll need a
motion to approve the consent agenda. So Director Whitmore's hand is up, and Director Rivera-Malpiede
is the second. So Whitmore and Rivera-Malpiede first and second. Are there any further discussion? I
don't think so. Any no votes on this action?
No, that passes unanimously I believe 13 to zero. Recommended action, there are no recommended
actions on the agenda tonight. We move on to the newly instated, or reinstated, however you want to look
at it, Report of Director Activities. Director Tisdale, I'm going to recognize you first, because this is on here
because of you. So you have the floor.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I appreciate that. I'll try to keep this very
brief. First of all, I attended the APTA Executive Committee meeting in Columbus, Ohio April 29 to April
30, which was a very informative meeting relative to basically what's going on in transportation at
agencies all across the country. We held our District H telephone town hall last evening. I'm happy to say
there were around 180 people or so who participated in that telephone town hall. And it's always nice to
have those.
So I want to applaud and appreciate the fact that we're continuing these telephone town halls. I had lunch
with our CAC member, Andrea Sahaca today, and with Roger Sherman. And that was very nice to hear
from Andrea about the work of the CAC. And we're looking forward to having further reports from them.
Tomorrow night, as some of you know, is the Mizel Institute dinner that Larry Mizel puts on periodically, or
annually for 2000 of his nearest and dearest friends. And you're all obviously people who have been
invited to that. It's a great experience. We have the APTA Board meeting for the full Board of APTA this
Saturday in San Diego. I will be participating in that meeting remotely. But if you have any issues that you
would like to bring before the APTA Board, please let me know.
And then finally, just a reminder to all of you that the APTA Transit Board Members seminar will be held in
Salt Lake City July 31 through August 3 just in time for our reinstated travel budget to help defray your
expenses. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, that concludes my report.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for your report. And thanks again for your continued work with APTA, and
reporting back to us on those important matters. Director Cook, I see your hand up.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. And you know, actually, this probably should have been brought up,
or we could have pulled off the Title VI program update, and sort of referred to it. I was thinking we had
other matters. And since I can relate us to an activity, I spent the last several days in Boston, took
advantage to ride the MBTA system. And here would have been my comment on the Title VI program
update. I'm really so pleased to see the intent look at the amenities, at the service monitoring report I
think it was called, and to identify things like seating, and lighting, and elevators, et cetera, shelters. And
what's being provided across the system to assure equity, and so forth.
It doesn't sound like included in that is the level of maintenance for those amenities, and also, the level of
maintenance on our service generally, on our vehicles and so forth. I was struck by the difference in the
quality of maintenance it appeared to have that the MBTA facilities, and in particular, the vehicles and
shelters appeared to have. Now, I know a lot of shelters that serve RTD buses aren't RTD owned, and
they are maintained by the city. And that is its own set of challenges.
But I wonder, and I won't be surprised if a CEO General Manager, Debra Johnson, has already launched
something to tackle these issues. So I would just ask if she can provide us a report about maintenance in
particular, on our Light Rail vehicles, and also in terms of our shelters. So thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. General Manager Johnson, do you have a response?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much, Director Cook, for your comments. And I'm smiling like a
Cheshire cat, because as we talk about our asset management, the state of good repair, and the $290
million backlog, that's spot on as we look at things holistically. And so have had conversations with Mr.
Stopplecamp, with Doug MacLeod, as well as members on his team, Lou Cripps in Asset Management,
as we go forward. And this is what we're focusing on, right?
So I'm excited about that. And Mr. Green has a role in that as we talk about what it is we're doing to
maintain those assets. So yes, I'm smiling, because that's part of our strat plan as we go forward. So we
will be reporting to you once we can get all these metrics in place. And hopefully, by the fall we'll start
having these robust, regular updates. So thank you so much. I appreciate your comments.
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Chair, if I may follow up.
VINCE BUZEK: Please do.
SHELLEY COOK: If you can also include there the routine maintenance, not just the capital maintenance,
but the routine maintenance, the cleaning, protocols, et cetera. So that would be great. Thank you very
much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sure. Thing and Mr. Stopplecamp is on camera. So if you want to indulge, Mr. Chair,
not trying to hijack.
VINCE BUZEK: Go ahead, Mr. Stopplecamp.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Love to. So let's start with the shelters. We have a couple hundred shelters,
300 shelters that belong to RTD. We have a contractor that does the maintenance of our shelters,

everywhere except Bolder. Boulder, we have three maintenance vehicles. And we maintain our shelters
ourselves.
Every shelter is approached once a week for cleaning, graffiti removal as needed, and trash pick-up.
Then we do the platforms for the light rail and the commuter rail on a daily basis. The same vendor that is
responsible for the driver relief kiosks also does the trash and graffiti removal.
We also power wash the platforms and the shelter. The shelters get-- typically, once a month we power
wash the ground as needed. But the platforms are done a couple of times a year. So that's our ongoing
maintenance. We have eyes and ears out there on a regular basis from our contractors. And then we
have approximately 45 FM mechanics and custodians that are out there on a regular basis taking care of
the landscaping, and station maintenance for our Park and Rides, and our Light Rail, and Commuter Rail
platforms.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that information. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Henry, Mr. Stopplecamp, do you also maintain the internal workings of the vehicles?
Or is that under Dave Jensen for rail, et cetera?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So I take care of the infrastructure. Mr. Jensen has the Light Rail vehicles and
the Commuter Rail. And Mr. Fornight has the buses.
SHELLEY COOK: Great. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: And I see Mr. Jensen just turned on his camera. So I'm sure he's going to give you some
information about the cleanliness of the Light Rail vehicles.
DAVE JENSEN: So Mr. Chair, if I may, I'm prepared for this, but would love to have further conversation
where we do clean the vehicles every night. If there's a report of excess debris on a train, we will pull a
train in to be cleaned. What we are struggling with though right now is our people power problem, and
Light Rail cleaning, service and cleaning. I don't have the actual numbers, but I can say that we've got a
54% vacancy rate right now. And so that is a struggle for us is to get enough people to keep the vehicles
clean. But that is on us, and in rail operations, and all of the maintenance of the Light Rail vehicles, the
internal components, all of that, that's handled by us as well in Rail Operations.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Jensen. Director Cook, does that conclude your comments and questions?
Good. Yep. Director Rivera-Malpiede, you're up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a couple of things. Actually, I also want to
just acknowledge the CAC. I did have lunch with Steven Dorn on May 3, and Roger Sherman. And I think
that those luncheons are really very important, and really provide a kind of a really good point to sit down
and talk to our CAC members about what their vision are, and how excited they are to be part of the RTD
family, and how we can work together. So I'd like to thank Roger Sherman for putting that together.
CEO Johnson and I have both been invited to channel 9 for their new 9 listens revamping of community
voices. I know that I'm going to be doing mine on Thursday. And I think the General Manager is doing
hers another day this week. But very excited and honored. It's by invitation only. And they're looking for
leaders to come and do a roundtable to talk about difficult issues in the community, and to gather
information in all of those pieces.

I'm doing my telephone town hall meeting tomorrow evening for District C. I'm looking so forward to it.
And then I think the last thing is that-- and I think a great many of us will be attending the road ahead
tomorrow morning at the botanic gardens with transportation solutions doing their usual stellar
programming. So that's it for District C. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Rivera-Malpiede. Second Vice Chair Catlin, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You made reference to the IBTTA road user conference. And I've
been involved with IBTTA for a great number of years. But E-470 is probably the agency that is most
involved with IBTTA. And their General Manager, Tim Stewart, resigned due to personal family matters
that he had to take care of back in Oklahoma.
He was a great leader of that agency. And I really respected him. Every month I attend their meetings, as
well as their committee meetings. And so Tim will be missed. But that said, they've hired a new young
Executive Director. His name is Beau Memory. How is that for a southern name? He hails from one of the
Carolinas, I don't remember which.
But he started. And he's very energetic and very excited about moving forward with E-470. But I had the
opportunity to visit with him, and he's very excited having had some transit experience in his background,
as well as highway department, or transportation department experience. So he's kind of coming full
circle. And he's really excited about seeing opportunities to work with RTD and transit. So I just wanted to
make mention of that, that he's on Board, and he's-- and I think it's a great addition. So that's all I have
today. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, I did have the opportunity to meet Mr. Memory at that conference. That
conference was hosted by the Colorado Department of Transportation, E-470, and the Northwest
Parkway Public Highway Authority. So those are the three main sponsors. Anybody else have a Director
report? We're going to move on to other matters. Does anybody have any other matters to come forward?
OK. I do. Oh, Director Broom, you go first.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just learned that CRL is no longer going to be our local intergovernmental relations firm. I do have a concern that in the selection process, apparently, the Board has
no part in selecting these firms. And since we work closely with these people year round, it seems like
that's a departure from past practice. And that I'd like the Executive Committee to review that.
Because obviously, the federal contract, and the state contract will come up at some point. And the
question is, will that be handled strictly administratively? Or will the Board have some input into the
process? Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for those comments. And the Executive Committee did have a robust
discussion about this last Thursday. And we will be bringing forward some action items that will clarify the
process, and ensure that moving forward the Board is involved in the appropriate types of contracting
matters that it should be including in these. But thanks for that comment.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you. That's it.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Anybody else with other matters? So I just wanted to give just a reminder to
everybody. When we get our link for our Board agenda and so forth, there's that link to the monthly Board
briefing documents. Just a reminder to please review those. It's very easy to overlook. But they're very
important.

And sometimes, they're not lengthy. Sometimes, they're 12 pages long. Sometimes, they are 311 pages
long. But they contain very important information. So don't forget, OK? I'm seeing nothing else coming
forward. I will now entertain a motion to adjourn the meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: I saw Director Rivera-Malpiede idea is the mover. And Director Lewis is the second. Any
no votes to adjourning the meeting? Seeing none. We're now adjourned. Thanks everybody for
participating. And we'll see you all. Bye.

