1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
February 12, 2015 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to OrderExecutive Committee Agenda
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 12:01 p.m. In attendance were:

II.

Executive Committee members:

Chair Sisk, 1st Vice-Chair Tobiassen (via phone),
2nd Vice-Chair Menten, Secretary Walker and
Treasurer Hoy

Other Board members present:

Director Bagley

Others Present:

General Manager Washington, Paula Perdue

February Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Sisk reviewed the agenda and expressed that all of the items had passed committee.
They were not anticipating many problems at the regular Board meeting:
Motion:

Discussion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve the February
Board meeting agenda.
Director Walker seconded the motion.
Director Bagley provided an update on the General
Manager Oversight Committee. The committee met in
an orientation session to bring the four new members
of the committee (Directors Hoy, Menten, Francone and
Walker) up to speed on the historical background for
this committee. Information was shared including the
Board policies and responsibilities of the committee.
The next date for this committee will be following the
joint strategic planning advance and after the General
Manager has ferreted his tactical goals-targeted early

May. Director Anderson will be the Vice-Chair of this
committee.
Chair Sisk indicated the discussion around the 16 St
Mall had less to do with the IGA but other concerns
expressed on paving improvements and costs. General
Manager Washington noted the staff is planning a
study session in March to discuss the general history of
the 16 St Mall and to help clarify the issues. Director
Folska shared that she is clear on the action item for
the IGA but has other concerns to be clarified. She
stated that while the $10M grant is to repave the 2 or
3 street block, her question has to do with the more
long term plans and if we should hold off with this
$10M investment until we better understood the long
term outcome. General Manager Washington
responded the money has to be spent on what the
grant was intended for. He expressed that some of the
issues raised in the discussion with Brad Buchanan was
premature as Brad’s vision has not yet been sold to the
Mayor and the City Council. It may be awhile before
any of this comes to fruition. Director Folska asked if
this will be wasted if we decide to rip out the transit
and replace with concrete. General Manager
Washington indicated he did not see the City getting
the $67M to do this and at best, there may be some
incremental changes. Director Bagley reminded the
committee that this is a collaborative effort between
the City, DDP, Historic Preservation and others. These
ideas have been vetted for over the past five years. No
decisions have yet been made. Director Walker added
that Brad would still need to get this past the Landmark
committee so this will be money well spent as the
pavers will still need to be replaced.
Chair Sisk noted that on the recommended action for
the May service change, Director Lubow had expressed
some comments. He added she may be providing more
comments at the Board session. Director Menten
added she is also looking at one of the proposed route
changes on the express bus at Federal Station but that

she is working with staff to get more information.
Director Hoy noted that sometimes we get comments
from 1 or 2 people out of a constituency base of 2.8M
and we need to look at the greater good. Director
Menten stated she definitely understands this principle
as she is all about efficiency and fiscal responsibility
but wanted to give the issues raised proper
consideration.
Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed with all the Executive Committee in
favor.
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent
A. Indemnification, Waiver of Governmental Immunity and Purchase of Insurance for
the BNSF Railway Company on the North Metro Rail Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached Resolution agreeing to waive the defense of sovereign immunity to
the extent it may under Colorado law and to purchase insurance for the purpose of
indemnifying the BNSF Railway company (BNSF) for claims arising out of RTD’s
ownership and use of the property to be acquired from BNSF for the NMRL, including
but not limited to environmental liability, claims both regulatory and in tort; claims
arising out of the use of automobiles, worker protection claims including those for
railroad worker’s arising under the Federal Employee’s Liability Act (FELA); and, the
Board intends that the limits shown in the Resolution shall be the limits to which
immunity is waived pursuant to C.R.S. 24-10-114.
B. Approve Contract Amendment to Supply 64 - 40' Transit Buses
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise an
option and amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig LLC. in an amount not to exceed
$27,500,000 for the purchase of 64 additional 40’ transit buses and associated spare
components.
C. Approve Contract Amendment to Supply 18 - 60’ Articulated Buses
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise an
option and amend contract 13-FK-001 in an amount not to exceed $12,300,000 with

New Flyer of America Inc. for the purchase of 18 additional 60’ articulated buses and
associated spare components.


Recommended Action
D. 16th Street Mall Intersection Improvements, Funding Intergovernmental Agreement
with the City and County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or designee, to execute an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City and County of Denver (CCD)
and the Regional Transportation District. The purpose of the IGA is to set forth the
rights, duties and obligations of CCD and RTD to construct intersection
improvements within the CCD Right-of-Way in conjunction with the 16 th Street Mall
Reconstruction Project. The intersection improvements will be funded by CCD, and
the construction managed by RTD.
E. Board Report May 2015 Service Change
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the May 2015 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes

III.

Other Matters




Director Tobiassen inquired about the status of the video. General Manager
Washington responded they are preparing a white paper which he hopes will be
available to the Board this afternoon. Director Bagley indicated this was also one of his
questions. Director Menten inquired if the white paper would include looking at her
suggestion to get interns to operate the video as a way to hold down costs. General
Manager Washington indicated he was not sure.
Director Bagley commented about the upcoming Legislative Conference in Washington,
D.C. He expressed concern that the House would not be in session. He expressed
interest on five levels:
o What is the schedule?
o Who do the Board plan to see?
o What are the ASKS?
o If there are visits outside of the Colorado delegation, what would be the purpose
and the Board member should only share the approved RTD position and not pull
this out of the air.



IV.

Director Hoy added this should be a unified effort and this is key. All of our ASKS
should be in concert and coordinated with other entities who may be traveling to
Washington.
Director Menten asked for a specific example of problems we may have had in the
past. No one was prepared to give specifics. Director Hoy did share a positive
example where for the past couple of years, we have been unified in our ASK for the
full amount from the FFGA. In 2015, it appears we will get the full ASK including the
catchup from earlier. The ASK is the Message.
Chair Sisk commented that for the last couple of years, we have been unified in our
ASK. Although the House will not be in session, we have met with staffers in the past
and this has also been effective. He cited one staffer who is now running for City
Council. He also stated he thinks it could be beneficial to speak to other groups such
as someone from the Means and Ways Committee who are not part of the Colorado
delegation. We need to remember that financing goes before some of these
committees. We may need to be more broad based. The key is being consistent in
what we ask.
Director Folska agreed with Director Bagley’s comments and expressed they were
excellent. She indicated that she and Tina Francone as Chair/Vice-Chair of the
Government Relations Committee are working with staff to come up with a list of
people. This list will be sent to the Board members for their comments on who they
may want to visit.
General Manager Washington commented that we do need to be consistent and unified
in our ASKs. This message is Key. We have heard that from former Secretary Slater
and from current Secretary Foxx. We also need to remember we will be competing
with a lot of other people or delegations when we go to Washington. We seem to be
changing our philosophy and scheduling meetings late in the game. One year the Chair
provided input and now the government relations are providing input and we are talking
about a Board member sign up list. Patton Boggs is struggling right now to meet these
changes. They have anticipated from early fall what are the key projects and where
we might want to focus and have tried to schedule accordingly. We need consistency
in our process and message.
Director Bagley commented he found the PEST (political, economic, Sociocultural, and
technological) workshop useful and beneficial. He thanked Paula and her staff for
putting this together.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:50 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

