Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, March 7, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 7:52 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
7:55 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

7:52 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District F
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Present

7:49 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

7:52 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:52 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Director, District I
Director, District G

Present
Present

7:53 PM
7:50 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:52 PM

Doug Tisdale

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:50 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:52 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:52 PM

7:54 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present

7:50 PM
7:52 PM

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates said that it was unclear whether the
legislature would be submitting a referred measure to the voters. He said he
had heard that the prospects for transportation legislation had gone from
poor to better within a span of a few days during the previous week. He said
that Fix It Colorado, a coalition that includes Move Colorado and the Metro
Mayors Caucus, is moving in parallel to the legislature on their own ballot
issues and that the group plans to submit a number of ballot questions prior
to the upcoming title board deadline. He suggested that the group would be
submitting initiatives regardless of what happens with the legislature. He said
that the group is looking at two or three different tax increase proposals and
that there are a number of scenarios where RTD could potentially benefit
from a ballot question and the money that would flow to local jurisdictions.
He said that the Colorado Department of Transportation would be receiving a
significant amount of funds for infrastructure improvements, which would
then allow local jurisdictions to have the flexibility to band together on
regional projects. Mr. Sherman said that he would keep the board informed
of any new developments.
Mr. Sherman said that members of the Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC)
had met with Directors earlier that day and that they would be meeting with
two additional Directors on Friday. Mr. Sherman said he would be presenting
summary of the meetings at the April meeting.
Director Folska said that she had declined to meet with CAC members the
previous year because she failed to see a tangible contribution on their part
to RTD, though she did not attribute that as a failing by the CAC or Mr.
Sherman. She said she does not see RTD making an effort to integrate the
CAC’s input into decision-making and would be happy to meet with the CAC
again in the future. She stated that CAC members could be integrated into
the pass program working group, because the number of current participants
was an arbitrary number.
Director Francone asked Roger Sherman about speculation that Denver may
split off and form its own transit organization.

Mr. Sherman said that the primary advocate for a changing the transit
agency structure is Denver Councilwoman Mary Beth Susman. He said there
is a plan to go to the voters with a bonding issue. Mr. Sherman said he
doubts whether the city administration has the desire to get into transit
business. He said the City and County of Denver is under pressure to provide
more sidewalks, bike lanes, first- and last-mile solutions, and circulators, and
he speculated that any bonding issue would fund those projects rather than
forming a new transit agency. He said he does not believe that a majority of
those on the city council would agree to a proposal that would form a new
transit agency and knows the mayor would not support it.
Director Francone said she would like to know what benefit RTD would
receive from any of the ballot proposals currently under consideration. She
said that the MPACT64 proposals and bills coming out of the legislature do
not direct funding toward RTD. She questioned why RTD is participating in
the discussions and questioned whether RTD should be using its resources in
these efforts.
Mr. Sherman said that new revenues being directed toward RTD would be
unlikely because RTD has its own funding source. He said that RTD’s
participation in the conversation is important, particularly because of the
proposed flexible funds for local jurisdictions, with which the jurisdictions
could pool their resources. He mentioned that, in the past, certain local
governments contributed a high degree of matching funding for the projects
such as the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE). Mr. Sherman said that such
funding is a direct benefit to RTD and that he believes that the agency and
the Board should participate in the process regardless of the jurisdiction and
regardless of whether the given locality is interested in more bus routes, bus
miles, or infrastructure improvements.
Committee Chair Walker said he agreed with Mr. Sherman that RTD should
participate in the ballot question conversations. He said that he was recently
asked to sit on the transportation and mobility committee of a general
obligation bond issue group and sat on a similar one in 2007. He stated that
one of the projects that came out of the prior effort was the bike bridge over
I-25 that leads to Colorado station. He said that, if Denver wants to build
sidewalks and improve bus stops within the city, RTD would also benefit. He
asked whether other local cities were pursuing similar initiatives.
Mr. Sherman said that a similar ballot question failed in Arvada and that he is
not sure whether any other local government is preparing to do something
similar. He said Aurora is always looking at options.
Director Lubow said that she would be interested in securing funding for
FasTracks and that she hopes local jurisdictions would band together to
leverage their flexible funds.

Director Broom stated that local jurisdictions are reluctant to go forward with
their own bond issues because the legislature is working on measures of its
own.
Mr. Sherman said that the situation is unique in that revenues would be
coming from sales tax. He said that the additional incremental sales tax from
an initiative could push some cities toward a 9% or 10% sales tax rate.
Director Anderson asked whether there is strong support for transit being
part of a ballot initiative.
Mr. Sherman responded that the answer to Director Anderson’s question
changes depending on who is answering. He said here is not a lot of support
for levying a statewide sales tax and taking a portion of it to flow directly
into RTD, which is why the initiative proponents have come up the idea of
flexible funding. He said that, in jurisdictions where transit is important, the
discretionary money is available for that purpose.

• State Update -State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry-McKenna Public Affairs, said that there is
enormous potential for a transportation bill, sponsored by the President of the
Colorado Senate and the Speaker of the Colorado House of Representatives,
that would direct flexible funds to local jurisdictions. She said she is
encouraged that the President and the Speaker have been involved in ongoing
talks on the issue and is optimistic the bill would be introduced in April 2017.
She said it is important for RTD to be part of the conversation around the
crafting of transportation legislation because RTD acts as a statewide partner
and has reputation for creating results. Regarding the state budget, Ms.
Brandeberry said that both parties realize they need to apply some outsidethe-box thinking. She said that, as opposed to years past, legislative
leadership, not just the Joint Budget Committee (JBC), would have input on
the rollout of the budget and that budget talks have been delayed pending
House and Senate agreements on transportation funding and the hospital
provider fee.
Director Broom asked whether local jurisdictions have been encouraged to
develop lists of projects for any flexible funds identified in the forthcoming
referred measure, lest the voters say that the measures are merely a blank
check.
Ms. Brandeberry said that no bill has been introduced yet, though she stated
that discussions have indicated the referred measure would take the form of
a sales tax increase. She said that discussions will need to take place on how
to bond off of the sales tax, how to repeal certain taxes such as the gas tax,
and how state general fund money would be used to pay off bonds.

Mr. Sherman said that the campaign entity that will be formed to advocate
for the passage of the referred measure would push for local jurisdictions to
outline what the flexible funds would be used for.
Ms. Brandeberry concluded with an update on a bill regarding construction
defects, SB17-156, which passed the Senate on third reading by a vote of
23 to 12, indicating bipartisan support for the measure, and that the bill now
moves to the House.

• Federal Update - Patton Boggs
Sherry Ellebracht, speaking on behalf of Squire Patton Boggs, said that Mike
Dino was in Washington, D.C., at the time of the meeting and that she was
happy to answer questions.
Director Folska asked Ms. Ellebracht to give the new members background
information about the Highway Transportation Trust Fund and the 80/20
federal-to-state matching ratio.
Ms. Ellebracht responded that she could respond offline and that Mr. Dino
could better address the issue. She also said that the Directors had each
been given information on the talking points the Directors would be using
during the APTA Legislative Conference in Washington, D.C., the following
weekend. She said that she would follow up with any information that came
out of the conference.

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - April 4, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 8:18 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

