2021-09-23
Executive Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning, everyone. I would like to call the Executive Committee to
order. It's 9/23/2021, and it is 11:30 AM. Ms. McManus, can you do the roll call, please?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yep.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here
BARBARA MCMANUS: Four present, one currently absent.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, we'll keep checking in to see if First Vice Guissinger joins us. She might
be running a little bit late. I'd also like to welcome, of course, [INAUDIBLE].
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're breaking up here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right then I'm going to put my-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, that's better. And Director Guissinger has joined.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right Thank you. Welcome, First Vice Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If you would all take a look at the Executive Committee agenda-VINCE BUZEK: We keep losing you, Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Today I wanted to-- pardon?
VINCE BUZEK: We keep losing you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't know what else to do. Pardon?
VINCE BUZEK: We hear you now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. We'll just keep going. If it doesn't work, then, First Vice Chair
Guissinger, can you take over with the agenda? It's just discussion items. OK. So the first one is Board
expenses. And if you look at the component around the Board expenses for the last two years, we have
decreased the Board expenses. There's been no travel. And we're looking at next year, and the staff is
also not going to be traveling again next year. So the recommendation is that the Board follow suit and
also not travel. I just wanted to bring that forward for discussion, to see what you all think. Any-- Secretary
Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, so is the recommendation just to keep it the same as 2020?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is.
VINCE BUZEK: And, if suddenly in 2022, the pandemic just goes away and everything opens up, and we
can go to seminars and things like that, we can bring this back to the Board, I presume, correct?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That is correct.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, we just have to bring it in alignment with the change in the budget process.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, that's all. I'm good with that. Sounds great. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Second Vice Chair Cook-BARBARA MCMANUS: You're on mute.
SHELLEY COOK: Good evening. I was thinking about the March meeting. In 2019, several of us went. It
was kind of-- that was more substantive than-- in terms of current events and so forth. And I thought it
might be helpful, because we tend not to do mid-- budget adjustments, it's separate, and you know, June
or July time frame. That it might be helpful to set a few thousand for the Chair, or any key people, to
attend if it turns out that's going to be in-person. And it would be useful for us to do it. So that was just a
thought. I don't feel real strongly about it. But since that will happen before we make the budget
adjustment mid-year.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So, how we talked about it last year, as part of the discussion, was that the
Directors could still use-- because the travel budget and their local expenses are interchangeable, if they
wanted to travel, they could choose to travel using that budget. And then, there also is the Chair's
discretionary fund, that we have. And if the Executive-- the Chair and the Executive Committee chose to
send a representative to one of those meetings, as we move through the year, that we could use that
budget for that purpose.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Does the local expenses include the telecom stuff, or is that a separate account?
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's separate.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. All right, then, that sounds good to me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And any other common questions?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Deborah Johnson has her hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
Just for everyone's edification, I'm in the process of working with members of the leadership team that
have auspices over departments. And in doing so, we're aligning our budgets around our strategic
priorities. I'm having conversations relative to what that means, and making decisions going forward. To
the point the Director Cook raised, as relates to travel, what we're doing is ascertaining what might be, as
we go forward. And what I endeavor to do, potentially, is set aside some money, in the event that there is
a turnaround process. And I'm assuming, since Director Cook was mentioning March, she was probably
talking about the APTA legislative conference. There is a lot of things that are in limbo right now, as it
relates to where we are with the Delta variant cases, and recognizing that we do work in close
coordination with APTA, we'll ascertain what that may be. So I just wanted to recognize-- make sure that
you recognize what the intent is on our side. I want to keep everyone safe, and I appreciate the Board
working in alignment. As we go forward, because I do recognize that this is a process that you all
undertake, but collectively, as we go forward to make informed decisions, there will be some aspects that
could be held in abeyance, if, in fact, we get to a place where it's safe to travel. So I just wanted to ensure
that everybody here knew that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Secretary Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, well, if senior leadership team is putting some money for potential travel, sounds
like there may be some potential for travel. Maybe we should consider doing the same thing for the
Board.
DEBRA JOHNSON: We will. If I may just for clarification sake-- I'm just in the midst of these meetings
with staff, Director Buzek, and that's my intent. I will be better informed the latter part of next week, and
we'll share that information accordingly. So I just wanted to clarify.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. And we wanted to bring it forwards, to this group, to give you a heads
up on what's happening, and what the rationale behind it is. So, more to come. First Vice Chair
Guissinger.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Just to be clear, Debra, you're looking at travel for the senior leadership team. We
would still need to look at our separately. Is that right?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. I'm looking at it holistically for the organization. Because, instead of just setting
money aside, what I customarily do when formulating a budget is ascertain what are we talking about-not just having a lump sum. But if we're looking at APTA conferences, you need to look at the schedule,
discern where that is, in factoring in all aspects of it, as opposed to having some arbitrary amount. And
so, when I talk about that holistically, it's recognizing I heard Ms. McManus and say, this is what's been
done in the past. But, what I think is beneficial is to factor that in, as we look at numbers. So if, in fact,
there's two members from the Board, because especially with APTA, perception is reality. Somebody
traveling to an area in the middle of a snowstorm, going to Florida to engage, does not look as if we're
leveraging taxpayer in the most optimal light. And so basically, what I'm looking at is, holistically, the
number of people that would be traveling. So that could be delineated into, in relationship to that, being
Board allocated expenses for a line item. But overarchingly, there should be a travel budget. Does that
address your question?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It does. Thank you. And a question, I guess for Barbara, about the chair's
discretionary fund. How much money is in that? Annually?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, it was reduced, as well. And I'd have to get back to you on that. I don't
recall what it's at right now-- it's either 5,000 or 10,000.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 5,000, First Vice Chair, of which I use none the two years, but hey-LYNN GUISSINGER: That's money you can-- OK. Thank you
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Rosenthal. Oh I'm sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I would say the-- I'm OK with this for now. The 3,000 local would go a long
way towards paying for a trip. But I have the same sort of sense that I think everybody else is getting, that

it may make sense for us to start traveling, if the Delta variant goes away. And if we're doing it in a smart
and strategic way.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Thank you. All right. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And I also agree that, at some point, it'd be great to see if we can either
send one or a few Board members to important conferences. And where we're representing the agency-well, we don't represent the agency, but representing sort of the Board and ourselves, and learning, of
course. It's important to see what other agencies are doing. But also the organization Accelerate! I know
that there has been a lot of good work with them in the past. I know that they have done conferences
before in DC. I don't know if they're going to be doing another one. And if that happens, it would be good
to send one or a couple Board members to that as well, because they interact with our federal officials,
both appointed and elected. And, as you know, we get a little bit of money from them to support the
agency. So, I think it's important to also look at-- I think there are some dues that might be involved with
Accelerate! membership, and I don't know if that's included in this or not. So I think we should revisit
organizations and dues, whether we can rejoin, potentially, organizations which we may have quit before.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I can tell you this. In years past,
we had one Board member attend Accelerate! and it is the most expensive-- it is the most expensive
conference that anybody can go to. And so, I will defer to Ms. McManus. But we can look at that. Ms.
McManus, do you have anything you could add to that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, it is expensive. I don't know what it would be, going forward, but in the past
Director Broom had picked up that membership, and with the discount of that membership, the cost of
that trip is approximately $3,500 a person.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But, we will keep you all in-- and up to date of where we're going with this.
We just wanted to bring it forward to the Executive Committee now, as we're planning out. OK.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Anything else from anyone on this subject? OK, I see nothing. Next is the
JEDI training next steps and Ms. McManus has been working with Median. And I know that the General
Manager has met with both Director Lewis and Director Dishell. We've all received an email asking us
individually to meet with Median for a period of time. And so I just, Barbara, do you want to go ahead and
talk about the next steps of JEDI and then we can open it up for discussion.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sure. I received a schedule from Median that started-- that I received last
Thursday, that started this Monday. But I didn't get them-- I didn't get the materials, the pre materials, for
the meetings, and the PowerPoint on how we're going to be proceeding, until over the weekend. So,
we're a little bit behind on schedule. Because Director Dishell is-- and Director Lewis, are questioning how
long this has taken. And we know that they, along with Debra, were taking the lead on this, and we just
got started again. I'm moving forward and getting all of the Directors scheduled. I have a number of
Directors scheduled already, starting on Monday. And I have asked staff to please review the materials,

and get back to me if there are any changes that they feel need to be made, by close of business today,
so that I can get Median that schedule to get the Zoom meetings on the folks' calendars who are at the
head of the list, beginning of next week. And also get those materials to them to review in the meantime.
In terms of the individual meetings, Median is going to be capturing a lot of information that the Directors
are bringing forward, and if she feels that anything in the curriculum needs to change based on that input,
that she will work with staff to make those changes. And we'll get some additional dates on the calendar
probably two-- probably one before the end of the year, and then two in the first quarter of next year,
which will catch us up to try to stay on schedule with what the original eight sessions in two years, in eight
quarters, brings us up to. So that is as far as-- that is what is happening moving forward. Any questions
on the process or how we're moving forward with this?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Before we do questions, the General Manager-- did you want to add
anything to this piece?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. No, at this juncture, I have nothing to add. I really believe
right now, as Ms. McManus has captured, it's really with few Board members, so thank you for the
opportunity.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, any questions or comments from executive members? OK, seeing
none, Ms. McManus-- how many Board members have you reached to do this so far?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I have three-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: How many people have signed up? Three?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I have three scheduled.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: But everybody else, everybody has been contacted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thanks. All right our next item is GMOC and it's an action item to
be considered for the October Board approval. And so, let me open that up. Any discussion on this
Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No, this was the issue of auditing the results of the survey, to ensure accuracy and all
kinds of other things and you, Madam Chair, and General Manager CEO Johnson and I worked together
on this, and have proposed to use our current firm, Plante Moran, to help us in this regard. And since
they're already on, and we trust them with our financial audit, I think we'll probably trust them with this as
well. So I'm OK with the proposal as is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, and thanks for this step. It's really an important one, I think. So, in terms of the
scope of work, you said accuracy, et cetera. I'm just wanting to verify that the GMOC is able to engage on

what those pieces are, the parts that need to be evaluated. What are they, if you've already discussed
that. Can I just get a little bit more detail there?
VINCE BUZEK: I don't have that level of detail, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Will you have a chance to sort of lay that out, you the GMOC Committee or Chair, will
you have a chance to lay that out, and discuss what you see as their role in terms of looking at the data?
Are they just going to verify the calculations, or will you be able to have some insight into how the
questions were formed? I mean, I'm just throwing things out as they come to my head. But just wanting to
make sure that it's the GMOC that is engaging on this piece, Madam Chair. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Manager
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you for the opportunity, First Vice Chair Cook.
Recognizing a presentation was provided to the General Manager Oversight Committee that qualified and
explained the questions, that was disseminated to all of you for your edification. That is being leveraged
through the course of intercepts. The intent is to have Plante Moran validate that it actually took place,
and then look at the calculations and things going forward.
Secondly, as relates to the community value survey, that's still in process. As I shared with you all-- made
a commitment to get you that information. There have been stakeholder interviews that have taken place.
Those questions are being formulated. That will be provided to you.
So the GMOC is aware of what questions are going out. And we can also prepare for you the entities of
which provided input into the fodder to develop such questions for the community value survey. So, if it's
the intent of the General Manager Oversight, if that is Director Buzek's intent with the ratification by the
rest of the body, to actually go back and ask those entities if they actually took place in an interview.
I mean, I leave that to this body to do, but recognizing that we have contacted individuals, and we have a
list of those entities, I am trying to ascertain what that intent would be? Recognizing that we have contact
names of a myriad of different entities that have participated.
So let me give you an example. Community stakeholders, so-- Mile High Connects, you know, Deya
Zavala basically had an interview, and that was that. This list is from last week. So not everybody-- I'm
just giving you examples. For instance, we had the Executive Director of Smart Commute Metro-North-Karen Stuart participated and gave input into the questions. What the community value issues are. We
had Molly McKinley from Denver Streets Partnership, and there's a litany of different community
stakeholders. So in reference to validating, if you wanted to have Plante Moran actually go back and say,
did you really talk to these people? I don't know what that intent is there, but I'm more than happy to work

with Director Buzek and the Chair if that's the intent. And so we will outline what that scope is for Plante
Moran going forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks for indulging. So you had mentioned in an email or an update, I think, that you
had reached out on August 26 to a group of stakeholders in order to determine the kinds of things that are
important for this region, and so forth, as a step for coming up with the community value questions. Is that
what you're talking about with Mile High Connects?
DEBRA JOHNSON: That's exactly what I'm referencing. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Can you provide the list to us, or to the GMOC, that we could then access, of the
contacts that you made for the community value due diligence, I guess?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So please specify, when you say provide the list-- once it's completed? Because it's
in process right now.
SHELLEY COOK: You had said, I thought that you had contacted people on August 26, but that doesn't
sound like what happened.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK so let me qualify my statement. So when I disseminated that information to all of
you, I stated during the course of that GMOC meeting that, basically, we provided a list of stakeholders.
Quite naturally we gave that to the consultant, and they have to coordinate with people based upon their
schedules. What I'm conveying is that I received a list of the status of that as of last week.
The list that I was able to obtain-- some are in process, they could have been completed, so what I'm
trying to ascertain from you, First Chair Cook, is, what exactly is it that you're seeking at this juncture?
Relative to that, I did make a commitment that once we formulated those questions, that would be
disseminated to all of you, but first we have to complete the information, or to say, the information
gathering process and the interview process, to formulate the questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, so the list of stakeholders you're reaching out to, in order to help form the
community value questions, I guess is what I'm asking, that that be something that the Board have
visibility on. Especially to the extent that that community value is a key piece of your performance
evaluation, if I recall. And then the second thing is, if Plante Moran-- I can ever remember how to
pronounce their name-- if they will get the raw data that is generated in order to-- as part of their
verification, if that's something they need, depending upon what the GMOC determines it wants them to
do, in addition to the things that you're also identifying.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I need clarity on what you're asking, because I'm lost.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. So we have TransPro generating data based upon these intercepts, other survey
instruments, objective measures, and things like that. And then they produce a single score for
community value. Or they produce the net promoter score. Will Plante Moran, as part of its auditing or
review, have access to the raw data?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would assume they would, and I've yet to speak to that. So let me qualify. As stated
in the presentation from TransPro, they are subcontracting with an entity that will do these intercepts, no
differently from what any other body is. So you already have one entity that is doing this. And they're
going to go out and do that intercept and they're going to do various aspects of ensuring that we have an
understanding what it is, because they're a research development firm. And some that we've probably
used before in this-- at this agency. That information will go to TransPro as they said, so they can align to
make sure nothing's wonky in the sense that somebody just checked everything off. And that information
will go to Plante Moran. I am yet to be in a position to qualify what that is, because we first need to go to
the Executive Committee and we will qualify that for Plante Moran as we issue a task order for them to do
a myriad of things. If that's something that the GMOC collectively decides to do, I think that would be
permissible going forward. But in at this juncture, I'm speaking in abstract and not absolute.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, and then just making this point again, that because, it does link directly to your
salary, your performance evaluation, I really think that, in addition to you engaging with them, it's really
important that the GMOC do that too.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm not engaging with them. So let me be clear. As we talked before, recognizing that
we have lost business over managerial contracts, that is my sole role. I'm not engaging with them in that
manner. So I want everybody to be crystal clear, that I am all into transparency, or I would not be putting
myself out in this fashion. So I will yield the floor to the Chair and the Chair of the GMOC, recognizing that
Debra Johnson has no role in that. All I'm doing is instituting a change order for a contract pursuant to the
direction of the General Manager Oversight Committee. That is my sole role. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Forgive me. I was talking about TransPro forgive me about that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, what is it about TransPro, and the same thing is happening with TransPro
because-- let me be clear-- and it's in the records, in case you'd like to see those as well. When we
engage with TransPro, my intent here, and I worked in conjunction with the Chair of the Board, that was
merely for a strategic plan. The Board of Directors requested the TransPro do the surveys, and hence at
the direction that came forth from the Board, that modification was made. So that was not driven by staff,
once again, that was at the request of this body. And that's why I made a specific recommendation that
this Board take it up in such a way, so there's no confusion about who's on first.
SHELLEY COOK: You know, truthfully, I was told that they had been engaged for the added work. I don't
remember that the Board provided that direction. I don't dispute you, but that-DEBRA JOHNSON: So on May 17, the Board did. You can go back to the transcript. Director Buzek had
stated publicly that we had a way of doing surveys here, that basically could use some work. There were
other conversations. I believe you added some input in that as well. And pursuant to that direction, where

it was specified that this body saw TransPro doing that, a change order was made. That was not driven
by the General Manager and CEO.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right. Thank you, Madam Chair. I really appreciate all that time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair, I think the discussion item set forth in the draft proposal coming
out of the GMOC is broad enough to address a lot of these issues. It indicates that we're going to use
Plante Moran to assist-- hang on one second-- to ensure that the survey data collected by TransPro
accurately reflects the views of RTD's stakeholders and customers. I think that's a broad enough
statement of the work to ensure that, obviously, they'll need to see the data to make sure that that
happens. So I'm satisfied with the way the discussion item that is going to be coming out of the GMOC.
Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other comments from Executive Committee members? First
Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm just a little confused. Is this, what we're being asked to do has been at the
GMOC, and now is coming-- it doesn't usually come to the Executive Committee. Are we taking a step the
GMOC hasn't taken yet? Or is this, we're just reviewing what the GMOC has done at this point?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is really reviewing what the GMOC has done. These are information items
for us. If you look at the printout, it is a draft of the strategic plan on the survey. That it is an information
piece for us, and a discussion. This does come under the GMOC committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And it already has-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: As the Executive Committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It looks like Director Buzek [INAUDIBLE] maybe he can help too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry Madam Chair, I didn't hear you. Yeah, no, this has not come out of the GMOC
yet. It will, at the next GMOC meeting. And it was the product of a number of discussions about moving
this audit function forward. And this is the-- I guess I'm a little confused by the Executive Committee's
reviewing this before it's even come out of the GMOC. But here we are. [INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: I mean it's fine I just-DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, I'm not mistaken, the conversation had ensued. And I was privy to that
discussion with the Chair of the Board and the Chair of the GMOC, to alleviate any confusion about our
path forward, and to ensure that the vast majority of Board members were aware, so it wouldn't appear as
if we were doing something under a cloak. It was, let's have a discussion at the Executive Committee, so

individuals are aware that this would be coming forward for the GMOC's consideration at the October 7
meeting.
We did not want to go down a path, because basically when we had the meeting that took place in
August, there was discussion and there was sort of head nod that we could do this going forward, as I just
explained to Second Vice Chair Cook. I wanted to ensure that there was action put forward by the GMOC
to ensure that everything was being transparently done. And so there's no kind of perception of
misunderstanding about anything that may be unduly influenced by the General Manager, since this is
connected with my performance evaluation.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I appreciate that. And I appreciate bringing it forward. I just didn't understand it.
And I think that was a good conversation because I think it is important, General Manager, that to clarified
that you're standing back on this, and that it's going through the GMOC. And I guess, Director Buzek, I
hope that the GMOC will look at-- you read the part about what Plante Moran is doing, and it is kind of
broad. And maybe look into what exactly they're looking at, and the GMOC is satisfied with that look. That
they're adding value, in the ways that we need them to.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, and definitely GMOC will take a lead in that regard. And I just wanted to say thank
you, General Manager CEO Johnson, your comments refreshed my memory about the prior discussion
that we did have. Losing my mind.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think it's really important that we have these conversations, as you can
see. That we're doing so many things simultaneously, that you can forget one or two things. I guess I
want to go back to Director Cook and say that you had asked to see the list of the key stakeholders that
are being identified. Did you want that list, or are there specific people you feel need to be on that list that
you're concerned or not? I just want to make sure that we're hearing your concerns.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. Yeah, I think it would be helpful for the Board, or at least the GMOC, to see
that list, and, ideally, provide input. If it's still underway then that might still be possible. So yes, I had
thought that that was appropriate, especially with regard to that community value area. Because, it's been
pointed out, we've got-- so we've got some understanding of our particular districts that may not be widely
known, that are still important. So yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, let me just ask another further question, and it is, would be-- what kind
of input would you see giving to that? Just so that I'm kind of clear-SHELLEY COOK: The suggestion of an organization that might be contacted as well. I seem to
remember, I mean-- Director Guissinger, correct me if I'm wrong-- but when we were suggesting that
similar contact on the part of our recruiter, I think the Board or members of the GMOC were able to
suggest additions, based upon their thinking about things. And I wouldn't expect it to be a large
expansion. But if there was a glaring omission, or a group that's doing some good thinking, or that is
engaged on issues that just hasn't been contacted yet, that might be a good thing.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So then, I guess my next question would be, would you see that information
going to the GMOC committee, to look at the list?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. And then other Board members could contact the GMOC members if they thought
there was something that needed to be added, and that would be more in keeping with the GMOC line of
authority on that one piece. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Guissinger, your hand is still up, I just want to know-LYNN GUISSINGER: I just had, yeah, one more thing that-- I would just second that. We have 15 Board
members with different districts and different focuses, there's a lot of need for transparency. I think we're
doing a lot of great equity work, but it's the kind of thing that some groups could fall in the cracks. So I
would hope that the GMOC would see that list and review it publicly, where we are. It's all part of our
transparency. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Buzek, do you have any comment? Or, let me go to the
General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm more than happy, Madam Chair, to provide this list. I do want to just keep
in mind, as I manage expectations going forward, I'm all about transparency, hence my previous
comments just a moment ago. So I can disseminate this as soon as we conclude this meeting. But, if
there are additions, I would ask, I mean, in the interest of full disclosure, just as we did with the questions,
I can send them to the entire Board. This process has been a laborious one, needless to say. We have
had TransPro, and we keep doing time extensions, so at a point in time, we're going to have to cut the
cord moving forward. And I don't mean to sound sort of terse as it relates to this, but this is something that
we embarked on, and this keeps continuing as we go forward. So, I think we do have a great array of
different entities. More than happy to share that with you all, but recognizing that we need to formulate
questions. We're pushing this out later and later, and so I just want you all to be cognizant of that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just that I would second that as well, you know I'm all about efficiencies. I'm not
saying we need to add a bunch of people, but I just-- I agree with you, Debra, in terms of keeping it all
transparent and keeping it moving forward. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, and while the GMOC would be happy to take the lead on this, as Debra said, we
don't have time to wait for the next GMOC meeting, so we have to get it out ASAP, I guess. To the whole
Board would be great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I think we need to be really, really strategic in saying to them they have
to get it back to us within days, because we cannot keep moving this forward. This is now, we're talking
about October. And we need to keep moving this forward. So, with that in mind, General Manager, I

appreciate you sending that out after this meeting, so that people can look at it. And then I would just ask
that, once we get that list from the General Manager, that we take a look at it, and if you think there are
people missing that maybe you reach out to your buddies to see? But we got to turn it around within days,
and not like a week. Is everybody OK with that? OK. All right.
Well, thank you. That was a really great discussion. I have nothing else on my agenda. Are there are any
other matters to come before the Board? All right. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Nope.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just was wondering if there's been movement, if there's an update on how we
move forward on the committees at this point. A lot of opinions, I thought it was a good conversation the
other day. So our survey is our next step. I don't know if that's Director Cook-- Director Tisdale, I see also.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: You, I mean-- and I'll invite Director Tisdale also to respond, if that's all right with you.
Yeah, we had a meeting this morning, very good, and talked about how to move forward. I think we're
discussing a SurveyMonkey, but using some of the expanded capabilities of SurveyMonkey, beyond just
a true/false or multiple choice selection, to allow Board members to provide input and discuss items that
aren't just clear cut. So we've-- I think one key piece will be, and it's a good thing that John McKay and
Debra Johnson took a lot of notes. So we'll be able to identify the things that had come up among Board
members. Michael Davies is going to take a stab at crafting that instrument, and then Director Tisdale and
I will have a chance to look at that before it goes out. When it does go out, it will need to be in the same
way that we were just discussing. There will need to be a pretty quick turnaround. We're hoping to get it
out-- correct me if I'm wrong-- but Monday or after Monday, and then a week turnaround time for Board
members to get comments back.
So, we also talked about, in particular instances, there may be difficult-- or something that prevents doing
something that was suggested. And I think Director Tisdale and I can kind of get with Board members
individually in order to talk about that, so they don't think that their input was just disregarded. OK?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, I'll yield the floor to Director Tisdale I just wanted to qualify some
statements that First-- Second Vice Chair Cook raised, just so I can elaborate a little bit more on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate that. Yes, we had a very productive
meeting this morning, discussing these items. And as Director Cook pointed out, I think that our General
Manager did an excellent job of capturing a lot of the ideas and thoughts. It is our intention to take the

vast majority of them-- I'll drop a footnote here-- the vast majority of them, and use them as questions in
the SurveyMonkey, so that we get the specific response of each Director to each of the items that was
raised.
The footnote is that a couple of suggestions really related to things that are beyond the scope of this
committee. Such as, for example, if we have smaller committees but a Director who's not on that
committee shows up, can that Director vote on the item that is before that committee? And that's
something that's just [INAUDIBLE] Robert Rules and so forth. So we would want to have an educational
process with Directors to that effect. Request has been made-- can we have a rule change so that fewer
than three Directors can bring an item forward? And I think there's just some clarification we need to
provide on that, that it would not be intended that members of a committee, three members of the
committee, be required to bring a matter forward, but that the same rule of any three Directors may
propose any matter.
So there are some things that were mentioned, will not be part of this survey, but will be separately
addressed. But that the survey will, in fact, seek to capture all of the comments and observations of
people and give everyone, as to each item, the opportunity to provide narrative comment regarding the
items, that they're not constrained to a simple yes-or-no response. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so thanks to both Director Cook and Director Tisdale. Director Tisdale did
touch upon something that I was going to share, so more specifically, while Director Cook talked about
SurveyMonkey, that will be for the more finite questions. And basically, what we intend to do is categorize
some of the elements as it relates to the committees and give people an opportunity to expound a little
bit. So if, in fact, we're talking about the Executive Committee, we heard a myriad of discussion as relates
to should it be the Executive Committee should basically have the ability to look at performance and
review of the General Manager CEO? So we would qualify what that is, so people aren't making
assumptions. When we talk about the number of Committee members, that came up in one instance, that
there should be three members of the Executive committee, in another instance, it said it should be the
officers with two additional members. So we would include that parenthetically, so you know what we're
asking when we talk about the numbers.
Then additionally, what we intend to do, while we're utilizing SurveyMonkey as the instrument, we would
take that information, so it's transparent, so we'll know if First Vice Chair Guissinger made these
comments, if second Chair Cook made these comments. So you'll have the actual SurveyMonkey there.
And then we are going to compile that in a spreadsheet, very analogous as we did with the Accountability
Committee recommendation responses. It's a lot more difficult because we would be all over the map. So
basically, that's why we're using these two different elements to compile that information, so there's no
question about who said what, and who's on first. So I just wanted to manage everyone's expectations in
that way.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other comments from Board members?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I think that's-- I'll just-- since I asked the question, I think that's great. I
appreciate especially Debra pointing out the issues raised around the Executive Committee and what its
duties are. Is it-- is it going to take over the performance and not necessarily the outward looking work of
the Government Relations Committee. I think either of those could work. But I think that's a really good
question to move forward to the Board. That's my only comment on that. I do have one other quick thing,
if we're moving on before, on other matters.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: There is a-- this is in progress-- and I mentioned it to Barbara today, but I thought it
would just put it out there, that the Accountability Committee meeting with the Governor's staff and
everyone else. They couldn't schedule for the first week of October. They just sent out a Doodle poll, and
so far there's only one date that has been-- there's only been five people that-- maybe seven, that have
done it. I can't remember. But, Tuesday the 12th, from 8:30 to 10:00. I guess I should maybe you and I
should talk, Debra, at some point, to make sure we're getting all of our people there that need to be there,
mainly.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, I haven't received anything about that. I heard it in passing, so I have no idea,
to be totally transparent, I have no understanding of that. And I have not seen any dates, and-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have not received it either.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It needs to be-- I think they think of Troy and me as being on the committee, but
very obviously to me, you need to be there, Angie needs to be there. So, I'll take a look later today at the
Doodle poll and maybe call Matthew, and talk to both of you and make sure that we're moving towards a
date that works for everyone, OK? That sound good? Unless you have other suggestions-DEBRA JOHNSON: No, no, no-- that sounds good. I'd just like the 12th-- I looked at that, I just flipped
over to my calendar, that looks a little scary.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, I-LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, it looks pretty scary to me too. All right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let's talk. OK, they need to do that soon.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Ms. McManus?

BARBARA MCMANUS: So, I'm just-- I wanted to let this body know that I'll be sending out an email to the
full Board a little bit later today, with the meeting schedule for next month. There was-- it was changed
from the original. It was changed a few months ago. It's been posted on the two week calendar, but I'm
going to send it out to everybody just so that they have clarity on how we're moving forward for that
month. And there was an-- civil rights Committee meeting that was scheduled for the 19th, and that has
been canceled. So there'll be no civil rights meeting. It'll be communications and planning on the 5th,
finance and operations on the 19th, Executive Committee on the 21st, and the Board meeting on the
26th.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, I'm not sure how to do this, but I think that we really need to keep
that two week calendar in front of us because there's been so many changes and we've had Board
members say that they're not getting information. But that is our lifeline to all of the meetings that are
happening, being canceled and whatever. So I would just encourage us to take a look at that as well as
we move forward, particularly now that we're in the last quarter of the year, because we have so much
work to complete before the end of the year.
So, is there any other matter to come before this Committee? OK, seeing none, we are adjourned as of
12:17 PM. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Have a great day.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you, bye.

