2021-10-05
Communications &
Government Relations Committee
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Good evening. The Communications and Government Relations Committee
will now come to order. We're convened as of 5:30 Mountain Daylight Time on October 5, 2021. I
respectfully ask everyone attending the meeting to unmute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the
RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely because of the pandemic. For the immediate future, the
official meetings will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website. You may go to rtd-denver.com, scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of
Directors page to find those.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
tonight, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you before speaking. Speaking out of
turn adds to the confusion. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise your virtual hands to
indicate you would like to speak by pressing star 9. Or to toggle your mute setting on the phone, press
star 6.
We do not take public commentary tonight during the committee meetings, but members of the public
interested in speaking are encouraged to go to the Board meeting. If you go to the Board's meeting portal
located at rtd.iqm2.com, you'll see the schedule for that, and please come back.
At RTD, safety is paramount so we always begin with a short safety briefing. While recent public health
orders have relaxed requirements in some settings, as a reminder, the Transit Security Administration, or
TSA, has extended the federal mask requirement for public transportation until January 13-- 18th, 2022.
The federal mask requirement states that individuals must wear a mask or face covering while waiting for
and riding public transportation, including airports and aircraft, train stations and trains, bus stops and
buses. RTD requires that employees and customers continue to wear face coverings and RTD is taking a
cautious approach to returning to pre-pandemic operating practices.
Transit continues to be an extremely safe way to travel and there have been no clusters of positive cases
linked to transit in the metro area. So consider getting vaccinated if you haven't done so already, wear
your mask in settings where one is required, and practice physical distancing and good hygiene practices
so we can end this pandemic sooner than later.
I have looked through the group, and we have all our Directors here except for, I believe, Director
Williams, who had said that she would be joining us late. So I assume we will see her before long.

We have one recommended action on the agenda tonight. But rather than keep our CAC co-chair, Matt
Appelbaum, later than he needs to be here, I am going to take our first discussion item out of order, which
is the Citizens Advisory Committee report. Matt Appelbaum, can you bring us up to speed, please?
MATT APPELBAUM: Sure. Thanks, Lynn. Thanks for letting me go quickly first. And hi, everybody, again.
This should be a short report. The Citizens Advisory Committee has only had one meeting since our last
update to you, which, as you may remember, focused on our thoughts on the Accountability Committee's
report. And I should note that we very much appreciated your interest in our comments and also that
RTD's response incorporated many of the CAC;s recommendations and was an excellent response to
that report.
So at our September meeting, we spent the first hour introducing ourselves and welcoming the three new
CAC members. Thanks again for appointing such great people who can represent not just their districts
but also bring significant knowledge of transit and mobility to the CAC. Most of you don't attend the CAC
meetings, understandably, but I have to say that the CAC currently, the members have an extraordinary
range of knowledge of transit issues, which is great for us.
As an aside, we do hope that we can meet in person soon. I'm sure you hope you can meet in person
soon, too. Because we now have many new members who have never met in person outside of these
disembodied electronic rectangles. And it would be lovely for us to be able to see each other and get to
know each other hopefully sometime this year.
For the second half of our meeting we welcomed back the Reimagine team, whom we've seen before.
This time the focus was on rebuilding after COVID, which I'm sure you've discussed as well. So we
engaged in an exercise on possible service changes, given limited revenue, and had a rather robust
discussion about our choices and priorities. Robust here means, maybe not surprisingly, we didn't come
to any real consensus. This is a hard problem. But we did very much appreciate the exercise and we
hope our comments and many questions provided the Reimagine team with some useful information. And
I think it did. The Reimagine team also gave us an update on their mobility plan for the future and the
modeling and scenario testing that is now underway, as you are aware.
And finally, as we've noted previously, the CAC very much wants to continue its work on the key longterm projects now underway, namely Reimagine and the fare study. We'll, of course, continue to look at
other issues, such as rebuilding after COVID, RTD's finances, equity issues, public outreach and
engagement, collaboration with local governments and so on. And we look to you and the RTD Board for
any other topics you'd like the CAC to consider.
That's the brief report. We, of course, have a meeting coming up in October and one scheduled for
November as well, where we'll take on some additional topics of interest. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much, Matt. I think we all agree that it'll be nice when we can get
together in person and meet each other, meet your team, and kind of just get to know each other a little
better.

Does anybody have any questions or comments for Matt? I don't see any. So thanks for coming, Matt,
and we'll see you in the near future.
MATT APPELBAUM: Thank you again very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You bet. OK. Tonight we have one recommended action. The recommended action
is for the Board of Directors to adopt the 2022 legislative program. And we have Michael Davies, our
Government Relations Officer, here to explain the legislative program and why we're doing that and what
it's about.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Great. Thank you, Chair. Hello, members of the Board. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer.
Tonight I'm pleased to bring forward for your consideration a recommended action to adopt a 2022
legislative program. As you all may know, RTD does not have a current Board approved legislative
program. From a staff and administrative perspective, a Board approved legislative program can be a
really effective tool and a very valuable tool for being an organizing document and ultimately helping staff
and guiding staff through the administrative-- or through the legislative process during the legislative
session.
And I would also add further, a legislative program, and this legislative program creates a process also for
the Board to be able to take positions, write a letter of support or opposition for a specific bill that comes
up during the legislative session. And so as well as spelling out and guiding staff and kind of giving a
framework for the priorities, Board approved priorities that staff will drive through a legislative session, it
creates that process so that the Board can know exactly and have time to consider opportunities to take a
position of support or opposition if a bill comes up during the legislative session.
And I do want to take a moment to kind of explain how that process would work. So going back to last
year, for example, with SB 260, which was the state transportation funding bill, as you all know, the Board
did take a support position, wrote a letter of support for that bill. So in this instance, how it would work, if a
bill in the future comes up that the Board wants to have a discussion on and consider taking a position on,
that bill would have to be added to a committee or Board agenda prior to the discussion so that the Board
members know that that discussion's coming and can see the summary of the bill and a little background
so they can do their own research, and then during the next week, during the Board meeting would have
that opportunity to have that discussion and vote on that.
So it's just creating a process so that you all know and have an opportunity to do your own research and
think about those issues. So that is largely the intent of this program. I don't have a lot of other specifics. I
can go into each of the items, if you'd like. But generally I've laid out a federal, a state, and a local section
for your consideration that will largely guide staff. And if this is approved, it would begin January 2022,
January 1, 2022.
So I think with that, I will hold my remarks and happy to take any questions on the plan.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Michael. It looks like I see Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Michael, for that report and for this
outline. So I'm looking through it, and it doesn't mention contracting with any lobbyists in order to further
our legislative agenda. It's been a pleasure working with Squire Patton Boggs, I believe that they've done
good work for us, as well as Brandeberry McKenna working on state issues.
And so if you don't mind speaking to how that fits into the agenda, and maybe what's the ETA on
renewing those contracts and the status of those? Thanks.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, certainly. From my perspective, our legislative advocates, our lobbyists, they're
a part of the Government Relations team, so they would inherently be a part of the actions of Government
Relations staff. And our lobbyists, I work with them side by side. So any actions that I take, I take with our
lobbyists in stride.
So I absolutely think that that is kind of the internal process of determining the Government Relations
work, or staff, I would say, internally. And then this document is more of the external facing document of
the issues that the Board deems a priority and how we would go about doing that.
With regards to our contracts with our lobbyists, we have just renewed a contract with Brandeberry
McKenna, so we have a solid contract with them currently. And I would have to double check, but I
believe we have another year and a half at least, or so, before we have to consider Squire Patton Boggs
contract.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And then for-- it's sort of delineated into federal, state, and local. And as
I look at the local, I don't know that we actually have any lobbying firm or public relations firm dealing with
building those relationships with local elected officials, key players, key stakeholders, other than perhaps
yourself. So is that something that you would also entertain to possibly grow our presence in that regard?
Because as you know, we've been receiving some negative feedback from some local elected officials
who are like, we haven't heard from you-- I'm not saying that, not you personally-- but I'm saying that I'd
like to not always hear like, well, we didn't find out till the last minute about this bus not running to our
Justice Center or something like that. I'm not trying to open a can of worms, but just to say I'd like to see if
we would make sure that that relationship is an ongoing one with a lobbying firm.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Certainly. We do actually have a local lobbying firm, CRL, Roger Sherman and Maria
Garcia Berry, CRL, are under contract with RTD and do assist on the local side as well.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. Sorry about that. Yeah.
And then finally, for lobbying for some of the things that were mentioned, how about lobbying also for
some state funds? And I know that runs kind of counter to some of the mood of some of the folks in the
legislature. But how about sort of pushing back and saying, hey, if you do want to have more service,

then you're going to have to hopefully fund us too. Like they passed the bill last session on roads and
bridges, but it'd be nice for us to push more and say, hey, it would be great to get some funding.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, Director, thank you for raising that. I think that the intent-- with regards to the bill
that you mentioned on SB 260 and does provide funding that is eligible for transit, largely goes through
the enterprises they set up and then also through DRCOG. And the intent under the local section there of
working with the councils of government, that was why that section was included, and that is the intent
there is RTD to be a partner in working with those councils of local government to suggest best practices,
be a partner, be a helpful entity with regards to any way we could suggest those funds to be used and
how that can benefit transit service.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then finally, so I was aware that CRL helps us with our, for example, our
outreach, like they're helping to coordinate our phone calls in the community and our outreach and that
sort of thing. I was not aware that they also worked with local officials. So my apologies for that oversight.
Thank you.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And thanks, Michael. And pardon me if you've mentioned it and I
didn't catch it, but did you work with our federal, state, and local lobbyists in putting together the program?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, absolutely.
VINCE BUZEK: Perfect. Yeah. Good, good. All right. That's all. I didn't see it in the report. So thanks. I
appreciate it.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you for raising it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll just also add that our federal and state lobbyists are here tonight, Patty Doersch
and Michael Dino-- they're not on video-- from Patton Boggs, and Jennifer Brandeberry from Brandeberry
McKenna, are all attending and listening, if you have questions for them.
Let's see, I think Director Lewis was next.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I have a few question-- a few questions, excuse me. Thank you, first of all,
Michael, for this presentation. I really appreciate it, and putting this plan together.
The first question I have for you is within this document, similar to Director Rosenthal's, it doesn't directly
call out funding from our state electeds. And so I'm just curious about going after or seeking funding
specifically for transit from our state electeds. And so that seemed like a great opportunity that we might
want to talk about why it's not specifically called out.

MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Thank you, Director Lewis. I would say in putting the items that we did with
regards to the state section and with regards to state funding, I think I included the section on legislation
that would impact RTD's Board approved budget and then I guess looking at the other side of it and being
proactive in seeking new funding. I think that the intent here was to put together a list of items that one,
the full Board wants to approve and does approve; two, I think this plan doesn't preclude that from
happening. And perhaps if bills are introduced in the session, that would be something that could be
added to this program through the process I talked about earlier and, of course, be a part of a full Board
discussion in doing that.
So it was not left out intentionally, just there's nothing on our horizon right now that is going to address
funding from a state level that we're aware of. So I think it's just a wait and monitor and see and watch
how the session develops approach.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. And thank you very much, Michael and Director Lewis. Just to offer some
context as I sit here and listen to the questions, and recognizing that this is a new approach for the
Regional Transportation District in developing a legislative program, recognizing, as Mr. Davies specified,
that this is a framework, quite naturally we are working in partnership with our advocates at all levels of
government. And with that as a backdrop, recognizing that we have some broad brush areas in which we
are taking into consideration for our legislative program, I'd be remiss not to point your attention to item C,
where it says advocate for environmental stewardship through statewide rules and regulations, where we
have stated clearly that to advocate for positive impact on transit can have on air quality improvement and
ensure sources of eligible funding are available to implement.
So as we talk about the overarching aspect of where we're trying to go as an organization, ensuring that
there is a strategy aligned and in turn this is incorporated into the strategic plan of which you adopted
back on August 10, this is part and parcel of what we're trying to do to change the trajectory in reference
to being the mobility leader of choice in the region. So with that as a backdrop, this gives us an
opportunity, as we set forth what we're working in tandem with our advocates on, both at a state and
federal level. And to the point that Mr. Davies raised, this brings us full circle when we do our weekly
sessions with our advocates, so we have an understanding of where we are from the outset and then we
can advocate in affirmative fashion for elements that will be beneficial to RTD and our communities that
we serve.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I appreciate that. And I understand that. I think one of-- I guess what I'm getting
at here is I think there's-- and this is not a critique of the plan, because I think it's a great idea-- what I'm
getting at here is I think there's an opportunity for us to sometimes show folks what, particularly other

electeds, what it looks like to fund public transportation as opposed to responding to what they might
propose to us, us having the opportunity to propose to them the ideas that have been thrown around,
such as around TABOR or funding for Access-A-Ride, right, or funding for the subsidy for equity
populations, right, for fares.
And so I guess that's more at what I'm getting at is is there an opportunity for us to proactively provide the
legislative body an opportunity for us to tell them what it looks like for them to fund RTD, as opposed to
waiting for them and crossing our fingers and hoping that they do.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Lewis, I think that's a great point. And that's something that we do in
reference to the coordination that Mr. Davies does at the state level with our lobbyists and having
conversations and have recurring meetings with members of the General Assembly, where we have
discussions about what can be done and how might we actually find a vehicle, no pun intended, about
how we ensure that comes to fruition.
So when we talk about transit funding for equity populations, generally speaking there's a lot more that
can be intertwined in that. And I'll use an example, and some of you are familiar. In the state of California,
you have the low carbon transit operators program that's funded by cap and trade. And those monies are
eligible to be utilized going forward for equity populations. Also, it's teamed up with the California
Environmental Protection Agency, whereby those monies can be leveraged for zero emission vehicles,
where you have zero NOx engines and CNG buses, whether they're hydrogen fuel cell or battery electric
or some other propulsion system that can help reduce greenhouse gases.
So where we talk about the overarching aspect, I think it's more incumbent upon us, as we leverage and
have discussions of educating and informing about how we might get to that end result, which would be
funding for equity populations, but we have to have those dialogue about the various options to get us
there so we generate a revenue source. So I just wanted to clarify that, that all of these things are
happening and this is the overarching aspect. As opposed to being more tactical about what it is, we're
talking about the strategy and how we advocate for that going forward.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. And that makes complete sense. And I appreciate that. A follow-up question
that I might have is, what does it look like? Because it sounds like from a staff level-- and maybe my
inquiry is maybe from a Board level-- what does it look like to engage the Board in this process, or is the
Board-- is there maybe preference-- preference may not be the right word, and so forgive me, because
I'm responding-- to engage our local electeds to potentially create legislation that does benefit RTD?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Certainly. And I would add that I think in working closely with our departments that
are working on, say, Reimagine, or the fare and equity study-SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.

MICHAEL DAVIES: --as we get information, I think that that can absolutely be a part of the
communication that we have on these items. It just isn't necessarily a piece of legislation out there at this
moment to take a position on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I might have a-DEBRA JOHNSON: If I can add, Madam Chair, Director Lewis. So as we talk about what might the Board
be doing, recognizing you are elected officials and working with your peers, I would say on the face of it,
that's what you all should be doing and we're here to support you in doing that. I think communication is
paramount as we talk about what might best be suited for the organization holistically as we go forward.
To the point that Michael Davies raised as it relates to departments and the various initiatives we have,
that's why we utilize the strategic plan as the guiding force, as we talk about sustaining planet Earth. That
comes into play as we talk about our overarching community value as it relates to that strategic priority.
So leveraging that as we go forward and recognizing that we provide information from the vantage point
of what we've been doing in Government Relations around advocacy and legislative outreach, this is part
and parcel about what might be beneficial, and putting that forward to the Board so we're well aware, and
we've done that in various instances, I know working with Chair Guissinger and Director Whitmore from
the legislative vantage point in ensuring that we have an understanding of what's happening when we are
advocating for certain things. And I know various Directors have been involved speaking on behalf of the
agency for a litany of different elements that may impact the district holistically or to the various districts in
which they represent. So I think that's always available to the Board, just for clarification's sake. And we're
here to support that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And you answered my question. I think that was what I was trying to get
at. And so I really appreciate it. So I'll have a conversation with you and Michael offline.
The final question I have, has there been any discussion-- and this is not a critique of our lobbyists,
because I think they do phenomenal, exceptional work at the federal, state, and local level. And so I just
want to preface it with, preface my question, my inquiry with that first, is, has there been any discussion of
hiring more folks internally to manage those relationships as opposed to relying on our contractors? Not
because they're not doing a good job, but it just seems that RTD might benefit from the long-term
relationships.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much. And I will address this question.
So as we look at staffing resources, we align-- once again, this is why we have a strategic plan and to
serve what it is that we're going forward, because we want to measure our success. So recognizing the
first step out of the gate is for this organization to have a legislative program, we will be able to reflect, as
we look at what our performance metrics are in relationship to what we have outlined. So this will give us
an opportunity to measure the score as we play the game and recognize that we need to pivot during
halftime.

So I believe at this juncture, it's premature, since we've just put this forward. But we are always open to
that, especially to the point that Director Rosenthal raised regarding local community and government
relations, recognizing that it becomes a Government Relations issue if you're not doing community
relations, because a community is represented by a constituency, right, by elected officials, rather. So as
we march down this path, there have been conversations that ensue. But we will make a determination, I,
working alongside my team, to discern if that's the best path forward, recognizing what we have before
us, because maybe it's beneficial to have an individual focused on federal governmental relations, state,
and perhaps local. But at this juncture, taking the temperature to assess where we are, I think we're just
dipping our toe in the pool at this time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely. Totally understand. Thank you so much for that. Those are all the
questions I have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And I would just-- I think that Michael Davies and Debra Johnson have
provided some great information. I would just add a couple things.
I think that our lobbyists are following a lot of different committees at the state and federal level right now,
a lot of potential that Michael is working on where we might be able to intervene. And hopefully, members
of the Board could be part of that, talking to our local legislators or our local officials, and even potentially
our Congress people that the various people know. Because there are some things, the variety of things
in committee that are being looked at.
And in terms of bringing more people on staff, I think that's great that we're looking at it. I think it's also
important that we have people who've been working with these committees and these legislators or
congresspeople or the staff at the federal level for many decades, really, and that those relationships are
hugely valuable. So I think that even if we bring more people on staff, Michael's doing a great job right
now working with them. But those relationships, I think, are real important to keep going.
I believe Director Dishell is next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I apologize if this was covered early, Michael, Mr.
Davies, in your presentation. I'm having some tech issues. But I wanted to hone in on the state cap fee,
proposed legislation that would increase operating costs without providing new sources of revenue. I'm
curious if you all have thought about caveating that statement, something to the effect about, as long as
it's not inconsistent with RTD's values.
And what I'm imagining in this scenario is if they said we needed to-- if there was a mandate to provide
alternative fuel sources or increase services for ADA or people who are neurodivergent or people with
disabilities, we are required to provide increased services or increase the amount of space for a
wheelchair. There's a number of items that in my mind fall into that category that it would be a tough one
to answer to hear, well, RTD opposed translation services. I don't know that any of these are up there,
right, but it would be tough to come back and hear, well, our lobbyists actually opposed the translation
services because it was going to cost us a bunch of money and we didn't have the ability to do it.

Is that-- are you all open to that? Where is your heads at with that?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, certainly. Director Dishell, thank you for the question. I think your point is well
taken.
I would respond by saying this is just an initial standpoint and provides basically the flexibility for us to
initially respond to legislation throughout the session. If such a bill was to come up that was, say, in line
with RTD's values, I think that that would be the kind of bill that then Government Relations staff would
bring back to the Board, have the Board have a discussion, and obviously be able to add that as a
support position or oppose position, whatever the Board's direction is at that point.
So I think that in any of those instances, this program provides that process and the flexibility for staff to
have that discussion with the Board.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome. And this is a future ask, not for today. But as the legislative session gets
going, it would be great to see sort of the relevant strategic priorities, or the ones that look more like KPIs,
not the little ones, in our strategic plan. And I apologize that I don't have the exact right title for those. But
it would be great to see each of those sort of tracked in that legislative tracker, so we can monitor at a
Board level how are we working towards a strategic plan and what does success eventually look like. And
that may have already been your plan. But just wanted to highlight that for our perspective as we
manage, as opposed to towards, well, I want all of these things, looking at how each of these items fits
into the strategic plan and those KPIs.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may. Director Dishell. You're spot on. That's the entire intent as we
go forward and leverage the strategic plan, so when we come before you there's a clear cut
understanding of what we're working towards. When I make my General Manager's report to you on a
monthly basis, there's no question about what I'm reporting on, how does that align with what we're
working on collectively as we rally around that north star.
So I appreciate you broaching that. And so all of this is intentional as we go forward.
BOBBY DISHELL: Perfect. Thank you. Nothing further from me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair.
Michael, thank you so much for this presentation. It was really, really good. I have a question about the
Biden's Administration on Justice 40 and am wondering, do you have your finger on the pulse of that
initiative and how RTD can benefit from that, which is 40% of all federal dollars would go to low income
Brown and Black communities.

MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, Chair Malpiede. I would feel more comfortable responding after doing a little
more research and having a more comprehensive answer for you on that, but would be happy to get back
to you on that with specifics.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you so much. That's all, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I just have a couple of comments, things that Michael and I discussed
yesterday as we were going through it. And both of them have been raised. One of them was the issue of
allowing staff flexibility and that we wouldn't take a position unless something has been agendized and
gone to a committee. And I think that's appropriate. But I think it's also important to realize, we do have
these lobbyists working all the time in committee and Michael working with them and Debra working with
them and making decisions that are not moving any specific legislation forward but are keeping in mind
and talking to legislators and to Congress people and others to achieve a lot of our goals that have been
raised, some of what Director Lewis was raising in terms of our ability to get more money and things like
that, and some of what Ms. Johnson explained. So not everything will come in front of the Board, as
explained here.
The other thing, I think, as it was raised by Director Dishell, that we would opposed legislation that would
increase operating costs without providing new sources of revenue. And I think Michael Davies' answer is
absolutely correct, that we can always override this. And there may be times where we're partnering-- it is
talking about legislation, so hope that wouldn't affect our partnerships with local governments or others-but there may be times where we decide that something is worth our investment and in order to achieve
our strategic goals and our values.
So while I'm fine with the language in here, I think that both of those issues are good ones to raise and
ones that I think that Michael would agree with, from our conversation, right.
All right. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I'm sorry, I just, I missed, I think, the import
of one of your comments in your last two observations, the first one having to do with not every matter or
position, as I understand it, not every position on a bill would come before the Board. And I'm certain I
misunderstood that, so I apologize. I'm asking you to just expand upon that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any position would come before the Board. But it's sort of responding to some of
the questions, I think, that Director Rosenthal and Director Lewis raised. I think that our staff and our
legislative public affairs teams are always keeping their eye on where we might be able to gain support or
oppose something. And they're always talking to people. So that kind of thing, I think we do need to keep
flexible for our staff working with our public affairs teams. Anything we need to take a position on will
come before the Board. And that's, I think, what Michael Davies was addressing here. And I think it's
right.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you still have something?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, I would just say that the work that our lobbyists do is pretty
phenomenal. Watching them work at the local, state, and federal level, they really have their finger on the
pulse of transportation issues that affect RTD. And I just want to acknowledge the work that they do do,
because it's stellar work on our behalf. That's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I would agree.
OK. I believe we have at this time no one else raising your hand. Are there any-- time for the vote. Are
there any no votes on this?
MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder. If we could get a formal motion
and a second.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Director Whitmore.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. We have a motion from Director Whitmore and a second from Director
Tisdale. Thank you. Are there any no votes?
All right. With no no votes, we have a unanimous decision. Director Williams, I believe, is still not here. So
we have 14 yes votes and 0 no votes. Thank you so much, Mr. Davies, for your good work on this.
All right. Our next discussion item is the Communications report. And Marta Sipeki is with us tonight to
provide the Communications report.
MARTA SIPEKI: Good evening, everybody. Marta Sipeki, Senior Manager of Public Relations and
Engagement. And I'm here on behalf of Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager of Communications,
who cannot be here tonight.
So you have the information in your packet. So I'm just going to give the highlights. In terms of our
naming rights program, staff is conducting an updated valuation of our stations and major rail lines. As
you know, the naming rights for the University of Colorado A Line expires in May of next year. So we're
looking for a new sponsor for the line.
RTD is making improvements on the 15L along Colfax. We're upgrading the stops between Broadway
and the R Line Colfax station in Aurora with new shelters, enhanced lighting and security cameras. And
this is really to enhance the customer experience along the route, which is one of our busiest routes.
And we're really proud of these new shelters they were designed in-house by one of our architects in the
Capital Programs department. So if you're on Colfax, please stop and take a look at them. Later this
month, we will have a media event to introduce them to the media and to the community as well.
We have a new ridership campaign called Take a Trip. And that was launched last month on September
22. It encourages customers to use transit for all sorts of different activities, for essential trips, going to

entertainment. And we really want to remind the public of the benefits and value of transit. So the ads
were designed with some lightness, some humor, some whimsiness, and a little bit of edginess as well to
give people just a break from the seriousness of the pandemic.
Starting next week, we will have the Board telephone town halls. The first one will be Wednesday,
October 13 and they will go through November 3. And for those of you who have conducted telephone
polls in the past, we know it's a great opportunity to connect with your constituents, to answer questions,
and also to receive feedback. So the telephone town halls are part of the next round of engagement for
the Reimagine RTD initiative. And we're in the process of setting up meetings with each of you to prepare
for your town hall.
And then lastly, the customer contacts that come through our Customer Care division have been steadily
increasing as more people are getting back on transit. And there's a summary of the contact volume in
your packet that includes everything from telephone, social media, email. We also have a website
comment form that we get information comments from, and also what kind of comments we've been
getting in July and August. And as you can imagine, the vast, vast majority of the contacts are general
questions and service assistance.
So that's it for my report. Stephen Breyer, Senior Manager, Marketing, or Will Adams, Senior Manager of
Customer Care, are also available if anyone has any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much. Any questions or comments? Mr. Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Marta. I have seen those shelters
on Colfax. And I have to say, they really look awesome. And I have received a number of folks in the
community give me feedback that they really, really do like those shelters. And everybody thinks that
there's actually solar panels on top. But they do look great. Thank you.
MARTA SIPEKI: Good. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
DOUG TISDALE: Mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, you're muted, Director Broom. Good.
BOB BROOM: Oh, I'm sorry. I wonder what kind of response we've got from the community since we've
canceled the Bronco ride. Because I've gotten quite a few calls from people that are very unhappy about
that. And the other complaint that I've got is that while getting there on light rail at the beginning of the
game is OK, at the end of the game, it's just a madhouse. Even though there's extra cars on the trains,
the amount of people trying to leave at the same time just creates a lot of havoc.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Madam Chair, as we talk about the Broncos ride, Director Broom, thank
you very much for sharing the comments which you've received from constituents. We've been monitoring

that, and our rail ridership has gone up. I know we have our Assistant General Manager of Rail, Dave
Jensen, on the call. And in relationship to us clearing the platform, we've actually done a pretty great job
in reference to doing that, recognizing that we have consists waiting that we have being held in the pocket
so we can clear.
We have basically received a lot of positive comments as it relates to that going forward, quite the
contrary of complaints, but recognizing that I know you've heard from some constituents. But we have
received some positive comments relative to that. So Mr. Jensen, if you would speak to what we're doing
to clear platforms and how we're staging gap trains and things of the like, I'd appreciate it.
DAVE JENSEN: Madam Chair, if I may. This Dave Jensen.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Please.
DAVE JENSEN: So Director Broom, I appreciate those comments and we will take those in consideration
and continue to evaluate the process we use to clear the platforms.
To GM/CEO Johnson's comments, we have been able to clear the Empower Field stadium within an hour
of the game for both home games. Excuse me. But what we are doing is we've built the trains up as large
as we can, so we are running four-car trains. We have added limited C Line service. And we are
implementing additional E Line service as well. And so because we are operating numerous lines, we're
putting as much equipment with as many operators as we have available to us to clear the platforms out.
But again, like I said, we will continue to evaluate the situation and ensure that we're doing the very best
we possibly can.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you [INAUDIBLE].
MARTA SIPEKI: I don't know if Will Adams has anything further to add to that.
WILL ADAMS: I do not. We are, as GM Johnson indicated, we are receiving very positive feedback on the
rail service, both to and from the game. So I would just echo what GM has said.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Anything else, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Not at this time. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, thank you. This may be a premature question, because there may be a
meeting still going on, but I was wondering about the participation and just comments IN the January
service change public meetings. Could you give us any information on that, Marta?
MARTA SIPEKI: We held two yesterday, one at noon and one at 5:00 PM, and one again tonight at 5:00
PM. There was great interaction with the people who were on the call. If I remember correctly, at noon we

had about 17 people outside the organization, in the evening at 5:00, we had about 20. And I just saw
that we had about 15 at the 5:00 meeting today. But our service planners who were on were able to
answer all the questions. So there was great interaction.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just had a question about the process for the naming convention. I've actually had a
number of constituents reach out to me about a particular light rail stop that's not actually in use within my
district. And there's an ask to name that after a local hero within that community. And so I'm just curious
as to what considerations you all have had thus far with the naming conventions and what it is that you all
are planning moving forward.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Director Lewis, if I can take that question. I know that there were
inquiries as related to how we would go about, and I believe that there is a policy, and Ms. Snyder can
speak to this from General Counsel vantage point, because we're talking about people doing a-- my gosh,
I lost my train of thought-- in reference to paying for the rights of the naming for a limited time. Are you
asking whether or not we are looking at doing the same, as opposed to naming a facility after a person
without any type of monetary compensation? Because I believe I'm conflating the two.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think it just leaves-- at least as it's written within the report, I think it just leaves the
opportunity open, at least as I'm thinking about the constituents who have inquired, opportunity for them
to say, well, you all are in the process of figuring out your naming conventions, is there an opportunity for
us to name this particular stop?
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. So with that as a backdrop, sorry about the confusion, but this is a paid aspect,
and the other would be a policy decision, recognizing that there is one in existence as relates to how we
go about our naming aspect. And Ms. Snyder, if you could, I know we've had conversations around this, if
you're available to speak to that, if you recall that conversation?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So yes, RTD does have a
corporate partnership program and a policy that deals with the station and facility naming policy. It was
adopted, I believe, in 1994, and then it's been updated a couple times over the last couple years. So that
is an existing policy and procedure that we would follow. I can share that with the Board and certainly with
you, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's more of, it's, I think there's an opportunity to be more explicit, because I anticipate
that my constituents are going to reach out to me, as they have previously, if they believe that RTD is now
going to open the conversation for having the conversation for naming rights, outside of the paid
sponsorship. So it's just, I think, an opportunity to just be much more explicit.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Your point is well taken. And I understand the
point that you're making. And when we bring this back and apprise the Board accordingly, we will ensure
that the language is explicit so there's no confusion about the intent here. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that it? Yeah. Director Broom your hand is still raised, just so you know. Chair
Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is a follow-up on Director Broom's question
about the Bronco Ride. And I'm just wondering if somebody could refresh my memory. Does the Broncos
help pay for the extra trains and service we're providing on those game days? Like are they in partnership
with us to help offset the cost, because it's such an expensive component for RTD.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. If I may, Chair Guissinger.
So to the question that you raised, no, ma'am, they do not. Basically what we have done is partner with
them in reference to sharing information so they in turn can share that with their game attendees. We
have been leveraging various aspects of shared media, in the sense of disseminating press
announcements and things of the like. But this is something RTD is doing. Hence, when we suspended
the Broncos Ride, recognizing that we were leveraging public funds to provide additional services, as you
recall, I gave a report recognizing that we were going above and beyond relative to standard service and
we're doing various things for special service. We are not receiving any type of monetary contribution
from that franchise nor the Broncos entity as a whole.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I guess my follow-up question would be, is that a conversation we should be
having?
DEBRA JOHNSON: At this juncture, if there was something more that was expected, we have to be
careful relative to us being a public agency and not crossing over into charter services. What we're doing
at this juncture, under the leadership of Mr. Ford and Mr. Jensen, we are providing adequate service to
accommodate the anticipated crowds.
In reference to the comment that Mr. Jensen said about maximizing the number of cars on the rail
consists that's been customary in my experience, working in agencies or in areas that have different type
of sporting events and things of the like. As we go forward, if there was an expectation for something
greater, there have been models that have been exercised across the country relative to doing something
above and beyond. Perhaps there's an entity where-- not a entity, an effort where there could be a
surcharge on a ticket, maybe $1 or $2, contingent upon the size of the stadium that could help garner
additional resources.

But these are things I'm just throwing out, if that is the desire of the Board as we look in the future. But as
we stand right now, quite naturally recognizing the whole world is understaffed, I would not want to put
our agency nor our valued employees in a precarious position. As I've made known publicly, I really
believe that we need to ensure that we are valuing our employees in such a way that we're not putting
undue burdens upon them without having adequate rest periods and things of the like.
So that's what I would offer up at this juncture. But if there is such a time in which you would make a
request of me and my team to explore this, we can have conversations at the request of the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's all, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Maybe the Broncos would be interested in naming rights. Right? Would
be a nice approach.
Let's see. I'll come back to you, Director Lewis. Director Williams, welcome. I know that you had
something earlier, and glad you could join us here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Apologize for being late.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No problem. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks. I hesitated, but I think I'm going to have to jump in. Having been involved in the
initial planning for what is now Empower Field at Mile High and doing a lot of the planning for the traffic
and particularly the arrivals and departures of the 76,125 customers, it's a real technical term, the exit is
called the dump. People come in at a variety of paces, because they tailgate, they take their time to come
in. So you do not have the pressure, either on rail or by auto, as people come to the game.
But as they exit, everybody wants to leave at the same time. And it presents a whole host of challenges,
whether it's for RTD or whether it's for vehicular traffic exiting. And so I'm just saying that I think we, as an
agency, providing one hour clearance of the stadium at the first two events is pretty extraordinary effort.
And to do anything in addition, I think would be too much of an ask for this agency. I think that what we're
doing right now is very commendable in putting the resources where we have. And I guess I just wanted
to say that I applaud you, General Manager/CEO Johnson, for taking into account our operators and that.
And I just, I know it's frustrating for some people. We've provided an enhanced service for so long, but at
what cost?
So I just wanted to let you know that that's just part of the planning. And that's to be expected in terms of
the congestion at the exit. So, sorry, just had to put in my two cents worth. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: I appreciate this conversation. I was just going to just remind us that one of the things
that was allowing us to be able to do that is mandating six days per week. And so it's really important for
us to keep that at the forefront, excuse me, as we are talking about our operators and our staff who we
don't want to burn out. So I just wanted to make that comment.
And then secondly, if we just might consider, when we're having our service change meetings, to not
schedule them during the same time as our committee or Board meetings, even if we've had multiple
meetings beforehand, I think just, it could be interpreted by some folks as RTD not wanting folks to
participate in one of the two, either a committee meeting or our community or service change meetings.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Lewis. Any other comments or questions? Thank you so much,
Ms. Sipeki.
And Michael Davies, I believe you're back on for the Government Relations report.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Hello, Chair, members of the Board, Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer. I just have a brief Government Relations report for you.
On the federal front, we're in a little bit of a holding pattern. There's an obviously intense focus between
the White House and Congress trying to negotiate and get this bipartisan infrastructure deal over the line.
The federal government's fiscal year was up on September 30, and so they did have to pass a continuing
resolution to fund the federal government and they did that through December 3. So that's the kind of
appropriation side of government.
Over on the authorizing side of transit programs that that appropriated money flows through, those
authorizing programs are largely wrapped up in the bipartisan infrastructure deal that would authorize
those programs for five years. Because they did not get agreement on the Infrastructure, Investment and
Jobs Act, which is the official title of the bipartisan infrastructure bill that the Senate passed and is now
awaiting action in the House, because they did not get agreement on that and postponed their vote, they
passed a 30-day continuing resolution of the FAST Act, which was our previous five-year authorizing bill.
So they only did that for 30 days, to October 31, [INAUDIBLE], and partly to, I think, keep pressure on the
negotiations and keep the issue moving forward. So that is the federal side.
Over on the state side, not a lot to report. We continue to track closely the interim committees that are
doing their work. As noted in the Board report, there is one bill. The Legislative Oversight Committee on
tax policy did approve staff to draft a bill to modernize Colorado's business tax deduction for mass transit
and ride share expenses. This is a current-- there is currently in place a tax deduction for C corps in the
state of Colorado that offer a tax deduction. And through this Legislative Oversight Committee on Tax
Policy, they discussed ways to modernize that. The legislative language is not out on that yet, but we're
obviously tracking that closely and will keep the Board up to date.
And then the last thing I would just note is today, the Transportation Legislation Review Committee,
TLRC, as you all may recall, General Manager Johnson testified before this committee in early August. A

number of the Board members did attend. That committee, TLRC, held their second meeting, and my
understanding, I think, final meeting before the beginning of the session. And today's presentation was
presentations by CDOT, Department of Revenue, various other transportation groups. The Northwest
mayors and commissioners also made a statement and testified there. But nothing to report out of that.
There was a couple of bills that they did move forward and will be introduced in the session, but neither of
them raise any concern or have any impacts on transit or RTD at this time. And that will conclude my
report, and happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. As one of the reporters said the other night, there are two
ways that Congress moves forward, the hard way and the excruciatingly hard way. And I think we can all
agree we are in the latter right now. Questions or comments. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hi. Good evening, Mr. Davis. Are we involved at all in what's going on with the e-trip
work that got put aside?
MICHAEL DAVIES: From the perspective of we, staff has worked with any organizations that have looked
at E-trip and I think offer all of the information and resources that RTD can be of assistance in that
program. So I guess to answer your question, yes. But as you mentioned, the process kind of ended at
the statewide level.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anyone else? Okey doke. Thanks so much, Mr. Davies.
Other matters. Anyone have any other matters for the Board?
Well, I know that the electric transit enterprise was appointed today. So it will be housed in CDOT. It was
set up under the transportation bill last year. And one of our brand new CAC members, Matt Fromer, was
appointed to it, along with one of our Accountability Committee members. And I know that Michael Davies
and others will be following their work for us.
Anything else? Other matters? No? OK.
Our next meeting date is December 7, 2021. And do we have a motion to adjourn?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. We have a motion and a second. All in favor.
IN UNISON: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We are adjourned.

SHELLEY COOK: Take a five-minute break?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Five minute break before our next meeting.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks, everyone.

