1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, April 2, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:53 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:51 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:54 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:51 PM
5:52 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Chair

Present
Present

5:51 PM
5:52 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Vice Chair

Present
Present
Present

5:52 PM
5:52 PM
5:54 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:52 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:52 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:53 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:55 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:51 PM
5:56 PM

Director Rivera-Malpiede left early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Lee Cryer, Chuck Culig, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson, Tina
Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Patrick
McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Pranaya
Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch

Others Present:

Edie Bryan, Mike Dino, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Miller
Hudson, David Lewis, Darien O'Brian, Joe Racosky, Jacob Riger,
Marta Sipeki, Jo Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Hugh Wilson

B. CAC Update

• Citizens Advisory Committee Update
David Lewis, CAC Co-Chair introduced Hugh Wilson, CAC Co-chair for
2013. Hugh Wilson stated that they held their quarterly community
outreach meeting on March 20th in Highlands Ranch. He thanked Director
Bagley for attending and answering questions. The constituents attending
had concerns about the last mile of connectivity and specifically issues
about parking on the Southwest Corridor. Some people were very vocal
about parking being problematic along the corridor, particularly at Mineral.
They voiced issues about bus connections in terms of timing, people getting
off the train are seeing their bus leave. He thinks that maybe some
educational meetings for those constituents would be helpful. He stated
that the staff mentioned a task force that will be looking at the Southwest
extension, as another issue of concern is the delay in its construction, which
is not a priority at this point. Citizens feel that they are having parking
problems, trains are full and there doesn’t seem to be any relief in the short
term. Susan Woods took the names of those residents and she will follow
up with them. There is a great deal of support for FasTracks, but they are
concerned for when they are going to get what they need.
David Lewis spoke specifically to the parking issue. They have been trying
to do their job and are delighted about the outcome of SB27 and will
continue their focus on public education. He also mentioned that they are
having one-on-one meetings with the Board members and he encourages the
Directors to make the time to meet the committee members and help them
understand their priorities and concerns. The CAC will continue to work on
being a conduit for RTD in the communities.

Director Bagley thanked the CAC for coming to Highlands Ranch. They had
representatives from different parts of the district. It is very important for
members of the CAC as well as the Board Members to go to the different
areas of the district and hear the concerns of the community’s. It was
worthwhile to list the comments made by the citizens and have the CAC
members understand the issues and bring them to the Board.
Director Daly thanked Roger and the CAC members for the one-on-one
meetings with the Board members. His meeting was very rewarding, he
learned from the CAC members and they took away a couple pieces of
information from him.
Director Tobiassen thanked the CAC members for their ongoing support on
the I-225 Corridor. They are always involved with the different events
supporting the FasTracks program.
Director Sisk thanked the CAC for the breakfast. He thinks that the Board
and RTD have a great opportunity in utilizing the CAC to reach out, hear the
citizens’ concerns and be a think tank in terms of possibilities for RTD. He is
very enthusiastic about the potential of the CAC.
Director Solano thanked the CAC for directing their interest in the South
Corridor. However, he is an advocate for the North Corridor and the tide has
shifted north and they need to stay on that focus and get the North Corridor
done before talking about any extensions.
Director Folska also had the opportunity to meet with CAC members and she
feels that there is a lot of common ground between what we do as the
Board and how the CAC is an extension of the Board to reach the
community. The challenge for the Board and the CAC is to have a
productive, constructive and positive dialogue with the staff. She
acknowledged that there is a lot going on at RTD and the Directors need to
be patient and work with the staff, as she believes that they do want to
move forward with outreach. A patient long term dialogue and interaction
between the CAC, the Board and the staff would be best.
Director Lasater also thanked Roger and the CAC members. He suggested
having these meetings in a bi-yearly basis. This is a great starting point and
he would like to continue meeting various members of the CAC and getting
their input.
Chair Anderson thanked them for the hard work and she also enjoyed the
meeting and appreciates all the work they do for furthering FasTracks.

Director Hoy stated that the one-on-one process was great and shows the
CAC’s commitment and the Board enjoys the dialogue. He also mentioned
that the Board has an opportunity to meet together with the CAC every year
in December.

C. Recommended Actions

• US 36 Bus Rapid Transit – Use of Contingency Funds from Phase I and II
Commitments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors modify the formal actions taken on August 23, 2011 and
July 24, 2012 concerning RTD funding provided to the Colorado Department
of Transportation (CDOT) and the Colorado High Performance Toll Enterprise
(HPTE) for Phase I and Phase II of the US 36 Managed Lanes Project.
Specifically, it is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors allow the
following actions:



Any RTD funding left over after completion of Phase I may be used for
the Phase II project; and
Any RTD funding left over after the completion of both Phase I and
Phase II will be used for acquisition of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) vehicles
for the corridor.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the April 16th, 2013 Board
meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded
the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager stated that staff is
bringing this action because the previous Board action
allocating $120 million of FasTracks funds to Phase I of US36
and $15 million for Phase II did not address the use of excess
revenue from those commitments if any. They have been
advised that there might be some money left from Phase I and
CDOT has requested to keep the funding in the corridor to
support Phase II implementation. Also, if there is any money
left after Phase II, they were asked to keep that money in the
corridor as well. In this case, the RTD funds would be used to
purchase additional vehicles for US36 BRT.
Director Folska asked Bill if he was presenting because Rick
Clarke was not here. Bill Van Meter stated that the Planning
and Department has shared responsibilities with both the Base

System and FasTracks. Rick Clark as head of Capital
Programs also has shared responsibilities with the base
system. They both bring issues through either FasTracks or
Planning and Development as it pertains to the planning and
programming of the different Base and FasTracks projects.
Director Hoy stated that this will always happen, as there are
some projects that are dealt with in different committees.
Director Lubow stated that her impression is that the Board did
not want funds from Phase I to be used in Phase II. Bill stated
that the Board was silent.
Director Deadwyler asked if they are expecting any leftovers
from Phase I and if that includes contingency funds. Bill Van
Meter stated that completion of Phase I is scheduled for next
year. There are potential unforeseen issues that might arise
and that are not included in the current contract which might
require using the contingency funds; however the current
projection is that there will be some money left over. Director
Deadwyler asked if they know what the amount of money is
and if this means that we overstated what this project would
cost. Marla Lien stated that they have about $7-8 million in
contingency funds. What would be left over will depend on
what happens in the next few years, including any immediate
repairs after opening. They have to hold on to the
contingency and if there is anything left over they would roll
over to Phase II. Director Deadwyler asked if the $7-8 million
were additional to the $120 million. Marla Lien stated that the
money went into the $350 total amount and from that they
allocated the contingency funds. Director Deadwyler stated
that she has more questions and will address them offline with
the staff.
Director Solano asked if Phase I and II overlap with the
Northwest Area Mobility Study. Bill Van Meter stated that the
study has just been given notice to proceed and it will address
elements in the Northwest and North Metro potential
extensions beyond the US36 construction project. This report
is not looking at the US36 BRT. They do touch on each other,
as they would be able to build out on the infrastructure that
the US36 will provide.
Director Lasater stated that CDOT and HPTE are infrastructure
builders and he doesn’t understand what they have to do with

BRT vehicles and asking RTD for the funds. He doesn’t like
being mandated and doesn’t understand why they are asking
RTD to commit to buy buses. Bill Van Meter stated that it is
not a request from CDOT; this is the staff’s recommendation
to keep the dollar commitment that has already been
established. Director Lasater stated that he understands that
they want to build the corridor, but doesn’t understand the
connectivity to the buses. General Manager Phil Washington
stated that the project has the infrastructure part, the building
of the managed lanes and that RTD has a remaining
commitment of about $77 million, which much of it will go to
the BRT vehicles that will run on those lanes. This is part of
the FasTracks plan. If there is money left over, the money
from our share of this should go to satisfy our remaining
commitment. Director Lasater asked if given that we already
have the $77 million in the budget, would this mean that if
there are $3 million left from the Phase I and II, we are going
to spend 80 million. GM Washington stated that whatever the
amount leftover is, it will be subtracted from RTD’s $77
million commitment.
Director Sisk appreciates the questions and the concerns.
However, if we build the lanes but don’t have the BRT buses
in place we will not have the system we want. This keeps the
money in the corridor to assure that by its opening in 2015 we
have a BRT system that we will be proud of. Also, we are
trying to get money from them. Staff has made presentation
to DRCOG to get money for the cars. Phil Washington has
done a wonderful job in bringing people together.
Director Walker asked if the CDOT commission has already
voted on this. Bill Van Meter stated that they have not, and
that RTD is trying to set a precedent and have made request
for DRCOG and CDOT to keep their money in the project.
Director Walker asked if they would need to vote. Marla Lien
stated that DRCOG has to vote, but by statue HPTE and CDOT
money needs to stay in the corridor. Director Walker stated
that it sounds that all the money allocated would stay in the
corridor. GM Washington stated that even though CDOT and
HPTE don’t have to go back to their boards, the staff
recommendations from all the agencies is consistent with
what the staff is asking tonight from our Board.
Director Solano stated that he knows there is a lot of dialogue
about rail versus BRT in the Northwest and wants to know

how this would balance out. Bill Van Meter stated that this is
a follow through with the core commitment from all
stakeholders to complete the US36 BRT. This is not in
question included in the NAMS. The question is about the
Northwest Rail additional BRT beyond what is on the US36
North Metro extension. Director Solano asked if this means
that BRT is taking priority over the Northwest Mobility Study.
GM Washington stated that it is not, and that there is no
correlation between them. The US36 corridor is a standalone
project that has always been in the FasTracks plan and has no
link to extending BRT or rail in the North area.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED to the Recommended
Action.

D. Updates

• I-225 Rail Line Update
Chuck Culig, Project Manager and Tina Jaquez from the PI Team stated that
this is the first time they provide an update since the approval. The I-225
Rail Line project includes a 10.5 mile light rail extension, starting at the
existing Nine Mile Station and adding 8 new stations. It serves the Aurora
City Center, Anschutz/Fitzsimons Campus and the new VA Hospital. It also
provides connectivity to East Rail Line at the Peoria Station and is expected
to open in 2016.
Tina stated that the project includes a Public Information and Outreach
component, which held a public meeting with over 150-200 attendees on
January 30th, covering several issues including CDOT widening. On March
1st they conducted the groundbreaking ceremony with over 250 attendees
and on March 22nd they held an elected officials briefing. Their next briefing
will be on June 14th. RTD message is what we are providing to the
community. Aurora provides information on how the city will look. They
have established a construction information line and email (720-863-8505, I225@rtd-fastracks.com) and have also created different panels that will be
displayed at the Aurora History Museum’s “Green revolution” exhibit from
April 9 to June 20.

They provided an overview of the construction process and schedule. RTD
and Aurora staff are reviewing design packages. The joint project with
CDOT is ongoing and they also coordinate with SEMA and Kiewit.
Construction will continue down the corridor. They’ve held several task
force meetings with all the different stakeholders with a lot of coordination
efforts for the Montview Station which would be located in the center of the
Anschutz/Fitzsimons Medical Campus. Staff is identifying properties that
will need to be acquired and going through the ROW process. Though start
dates and areas might change during the design process, they are working
under the following targets: Segment 1(9 Mile to Iliff Ave) and Area A: (Iliff
Ave to Exposition Ave) starting in the spring of 2013; Area C (2nd & Abilene
Station to South Toll Gate Bridge) and Area D (South Toll Gate Bridge to
North Toll Gate Bridge) in the summer of 2013. During the Fall of 2013
they expect to begin Areas B (Exposition Ave to 2nd & Abilene Station) and E
(Fitzsimmons Parkway) with the Areas G (Peoria St) and F (Montview Blvd)
by spring of 2014. All work is expected to be completed by October 2015
for RTD testing.
I-225 highway traffic shifts are planned for spring/summer phase 1c
estimated to begin in early May will shift SSB traffic to new SB pavement.
Phase 2 estimated to begin in late June.
Kiewit has provided several SBE opportunities, as of January they have 40
SBE subs with a $14 million commitment. The SBE goal for this project is
25.
Kiewit was also committed to about 30 WIN participants in the project
ranging from admin staff to control crew and engineering staff. They have
embraced that program. They are also requesting their subs to have this in
their contract.
Director Tobiassen commended the I-225 PI and project team for their hard
work, as well as the East Corridor team. Both teams have been stellar. He
thanked the CAC for supporting this project on the outreach activities. They
are working with the City of Aurora to unify the message. Sometimes it is a
struggle because of the many PI teams involved, but the project is moving
forward. There will be some challenges but the team is working very hard
to stay ahead.
Director Daly asked where the VA hospital is located from the station.
Chuck stated that it is west of I-225 and Colfax.

Director Solano asked how they do the utility coordination when we move
an arch. Chuck stated that they coordinate with the utilities companies and
they move their own lines.
Director Folska agreed with Director Tobiassen and this is just a huge
enterprise and she knows that it will continue to be a lot of work. She
thinks that Tina’s numbers are low for the people they reached out. She
recalls a couple of events with almost 250 participants each. She asked if it
is possible to keep the display longer at the museum. Tina stated that she
will check with the museum. Director Folska asked if building a pedestrian
bridge over the Regata Plaza across Parker is something that we could do as
part of the joint project with the City of Aurora and if we can we put a
similar bridge to have access to the VA hospital. She also mentioned that
the Congressman Coffman is concerned and he would like his Chief of Staff
Dustin to attend the meetings with the VA. She wonders if a Tiger grant
would be something that can be used for that.
Director Bagley stated that he is excited to see that this corridor is moving
forward. Part of the reason that this corridor makes sense to be developed
was the economic development driven by the three new hospitals. It is
important to recognize that the area north of Colfax is all in Director
Deadwyler’s district.
Director Menten asked how does RTD deal with expansive soils such as
bentonite, and who is responsible. Chuck stated that the contractor is
responsible for that kind of elements. It is a problem in Colorado, but we
make the studies to try to avoid that. It is part of the contract and has a
one year warranty. Director Menten asked if one year covers very well and
if there have been issues in other lines. Chuck stated there has been some,
but they have asked Kiewit and they have come back and fix the problem.
After that, it is primary our staff’s job to provide maintenance and do proper
inspections.
Director Hoy stated that it is exciting to see it underway.

E. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

F. Next Meeting Date - May 14, 2013
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:55 p.m. to the Planning and
Development Committee Meeting

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

