## I. Operations and Customer Service Committee

Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

### A. Call to Order

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:35p.m.

Staff Present:              Bruce Abel, Marcellinus Andrew, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Mark Jones, Erin Klaas, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara McManus, Judy McMurphy, Brenden Morgan, Alice Osner, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Richard Rost, Jannette Scarpino, Beverly Scott, Dean Shaklee, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Phil Washington, Michael Washington, Dennis Yaklich

Others Present:              Rich Burns, Richard Enman, Boyd Gordon, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Bill Hipp, Lee Johnson, Stu Livensparger, Mike Newman, Larry Tenenholz, Joe Triplett, Ronnie Valle, Gary Van Dorn, Dee Wisor

#### 1. Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Fifth-Year Amendment

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI) as the Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (Contract 18DH016).  This contract amendment is for the fifth year of a five year period of performance.  The scope and fee are renegotiated annually.  The fifth-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit of $1,700,000 for a total contract value to date of $9,622,000.

Motion:              Director Folska made the motion to move this to the full Board at the March 26, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:              Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager and George Hovey, IT Project Manager stated that the report is included in the packet.

Director Lasater asked what the life expectancy is for the hardware.  George Hovey stated that it is six to seven years and that they are half way complete with the installation of the system.  Staff has started with the capital budget process going six and seven years out.  They feel confident in gaining full value as they have a state of the art system in terms of quality.   Director Lasater stated that based on his experience in municipal government, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has been changing bandwidths.  Since RTD has a 450MHz Analog Radio communications systems, would this mean that the agency will have to throw everything out and reinvent the wheel?  George Hovey stated that they are trying to move out of the 450MHz bandwidth and relinquish the license.  RTD is currently operating in a grandfathered waver for 2013 and if it is not off that bandwidth by the end of the year RTD could get penalized by the FCC.   The agency is working in two modes: for voice communications they are working with the State of Colorado, emergency services agencies with Consolidated Communications Network of Colorado (CCNC).  For data transmission RTD is using cellular technology.

Director Bagley asked what was the contract amount for the fourth year.  George Hovey stated that it was over $2 million.  They offer technical services and the installation which includes 5-10 major contracts.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED to the unanimous consent agenda.

#### 2. Contract Award for the Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way Renovation/Tenant Finish Project

It is Recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager,or his designee, to award a contract to the low, responsive, responsible bidder, Calahan Construction, in the not-to-exceed amount of $3,472,630 for renovation and tenant finish of the Rio Court Maintenance-of-Way (MOW) facility.

Motion:              Director Bagley made the motion to move this to the full Board at the March 26, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:              David Genova, Assistant General Manager introduced Richard Rost, Facilities Engineering Manager and Robin McIntosh, Senior Facilities Manager.  David Genova stated that the light rail maintenance-of-way (MOW) group is in need of a new place to accommodate growth of the light rail system for both base system and FasTracks.  The property was initially acquired to relocate the Burnham Yard lead track.  The original plan was to demolish the building.  The building will be a combination facility as it will serve the base system and FasTracks.  The acquisition of the property that was necessary for the West Line, was a $9.2 million investment made by FasTracks.

Director Sisk asked why the Kiewit bid was determined to be unresponsive.  Richard Rost stated that there are attachments that are required by all bidders and Kiewit failed to submit one of them.  David Genova stated that there were about eight items that were part of the bid package, different forms and certifications they need to provide, and Kiewit did not include all requirements.  General Manager (GM) Phil Washington stated that staff always offers an opportunity for firms that want a debrief, but in this case there were several forms missing to include some SBE documents and staff had no choice but to deem it non-responsive.

Director Solano asked how many companies had placed bids and how this was the best bid.  Richard Rost stated that they award based on low bid and if the low bidder is non-responsive they go to the next bidder.  David Genova stated that this is an invitation for bid process.  In this process there are very tight specifications and requirement and the bidders need to include all the information requested in the bid package.  Selection is based on price only as opposed to an RFP process where there would be an evaluation criteria and price is not the only factor.

Director Deadwyler asked if Calahan makes up the 25% goal established and if DBEs have been invited to participate in this project.  David Genova stated that since the project is funded with local money the goal is SBE.  If it was a federal project the goal would be DBE; however any SBE or DBE would be allowed to bid.  Calahan is a certified SBE and they will be subcontracting some of the work to other SBE.  Director Deadwyler asked if staff can find out if Calahan is opening it up to DBEs.  David Genova stated that they will try to find that information for her.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED to the unanimous consent agenda.

##### a. Rio Court Aerial Picture - 0313

#### 3. 2013-2015 Title VI Program Update

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors adopt the Title VI 2013-2015 Program Update to comply with federal laws, regulations and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

Motion:              Director Deadwyler made the motion to move this to the full Board at the March 26, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:              GM Washington stated that this issue is brought to the Operations Committee because though they have a May 31st deadline for the report to get to the Feds; staff has to submit the program to the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) by April 1st.  Since there was no Civic Rights Committee meeting until next month, they had to bring it in the next available Committee meeting which was Operations.  Staff tries to avoid bringing an item to another committee but because of the timing issues associated with the submittal of the report they had no choice.  At the last Civil Rights committee meeting the submission was not ready to bring it up.

He stated that with regard to the question of whether or not the American with Disabilities Act (ADA) piece should be included in the Title VI piece, his answer is no.  These are two separate and distinct items.  He said that the FTA does not require it and that ADA is a standalone program too extensive to be included in Title VI.  Staff is working in putting together a very comprehensive plan that will include all ADA aspects such as transportation, hiring, facilities and communications.  They expect to bring it up in the next 60 days or less through the Civil Rights Committee with input from other areas of the District.  They will look at the compliance piece of the program.  FTA does not expect ADA to be part of Title VI and we want to comply with the FTA for federal funding.

With regard to the discussion about moving the Title VI position to Planning, GM Washington stated that he restructured the position primarily to make sure that Title VI functions go in front of the various projects just like environmental and other areas included in the planning area.  He wants to be proactive instead of reactive in this area.  They will continue to develop the area and the incumbent in this position.  Staff still wants to bring the Title VI functional issue at the policy level through the Civil Rights Committee.

With regard to the document, it was not in the appropriate format and he takes full responsibility for it.  They want to hear the Board comments, make the correction and have the final document in the package this Thursday for the Board meeting next Tuesday.

The big piece of the document is the content and intent as FTA looks to see if we have a program.  FTA will also come back to see if we have implemented the program, but the document shows the content and intent of having the program

Mike Turner, Planning Coordination Manager stated that one example is the East corridor project where they were looking at different alternatives at the very beginning, which went in or near various kinds of diverse neighborhoods.  Under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) environmental justice is very much related to Title VI issues, but more related to see how the different alternatives address mobility and how they benefit or impact populations of different race, color or national origin.  It is a matter of making sure that we take all of that into account so that there is not a disproportionate impact.  In this project they had a very large Hispanic population and they had to have language translation involved and specific outreach.  Another example is the launch of the Central Rail extension where there are several alternatives, they need to look at how they will provide the service, do they use light rail, street car and how we get into downtown or not.  The Five Points area’s citizens would have a lot of concerns with regard to the service they would get and how it would impact them.   All this would be part of the analysis.  It is probably a good idea to have that prospective at the very beginning of the program as all projects beginning in planning but when it gets down to specific services and alternatives and impacts it needs to be looked at very closely.

Director Bagley commented that this is about a 600 pages report, he trusts the staff and know how important this document is for compliance with the FTA.  He thinks the main components have been handled.  He supports the approval of the document.

Director Deadwyler stated that she has questions about the move of Title VI to the Planning Department.  Based on GM Washington statement that it was to get ahead with the program, she wants to know why we were behind; with the quality of staff available, there is no excuse for RTD to not meet a deadline.  Also, with a 600 pages report, she would have wanted to be able read it to understand the issues, but they have turned this into a crisis situation.   She has trust but not 100% trust.  She wants to know why the report was delayed.  She is not happy about these moves and the lack of time to read the whole document though she understands they need to approve it.  She stated that she will be at the GM’s desk any time there is a flaw and anytime the Board misses a deadline because of lack of information or because it is poorly written. She asked GM Washington to respond to why this report was delayed.  GM Washington stated that there are no excuses and he takes full responsibility for it coming to the Board now; however there are several issues and this particular report is very comprehensive.  They will try to do is do better in the future in terms of deadlines.  This is an area of continued improvement.

Director Deadwyler asked if there is any chance of the Title VI department going back to the Civil Rights Division.  GM Washington stated that he believes that the new reporting and structure is in the best interest of the agency.

Director Lubow stated that she is also concerned about the timing.  It is a lengthy document that includes a lot of dense legal material, which is deeply important and not having the time to read all of it, precludes them from doing their job.  She will vote against because she could not read it.  Based on what she has been able to read, she has learned a lot and already has a lot of questions.  GM Washington stated that they have a few revisions and hope to have them ready by Thursday.  Director Lubow stated that she has a lot of revisions and that she understands how demanding it is to write a document like this but it makes it difficult for the Board members if it is not ready on time.  GM Washington mentioned that staff is ready to sit down with the Directors and help them with any questions they might have.  This is an update of the last document presented three years ago and that they have always had.  The previous document is set to expire in May.  Director Lubow stated that she agrees with Director Deadwyler and understands that we need to be proactive, but thinks that the Civil Right Division would be a better place for Title VI.

Director Solano is concerned about a Civil Rights issue that should have been planned from day one and not dealing with it at the last minute.  Civil Rights is a very important issue to ridership.  He will vote no.

Director Folska stated that she is troubled about putting any civil rights into different divisions in RTD.  She understands that everything is going to be revised under the Civil Right Committee but it dilutes the impact of the Civil Rights Division.  She asked about the expertise of Mike Turner on Title VI and any experience he has advocating for people affected by it.  GM Washington stated that Mike Turner has been in the planning division for several years.  The items that are part of his purview in terms of being proactive and looking at the planning pieces include the tasks that he mentioned earlier.  They see Title VI as an early part of planning.  Having it in the Civil Rights department often times made Title VI more reactive than proactive as it stayed out of the planning arena for various projects.  With the change, Title VI will address very important issues and become part of the planning items at the front end.  Director Folska stated that everybody needs to be trained in Civil Right across the different divisions.  She doesn’t agree with having this piece along with environmental justice in an area where people don’t have specific expertise advocating for Title VI.  It makes more sense to have all the Civil Rights issues whether Title IV, Title II or Title VI concentrated in the Civil Rights Division, headed by Kenn Hardin who is clearly competent in this area.  That division can outreach to other division to educate them and everybody knows where to go.

Director Folska stated that she understands about the FTA requirements and that they are not asking for ADA specifically.  However it is important to recognize that adding the phrase people with disabilities does not distract from the main focus of the report.  These people fall in all other categories of race, English proficiency, etc.  It is important to have it, because if they are not in the list they are not counted.   She hopes that they will make the commitment to include ADA aspects, even if not all ADA requirements.  GM Washington stated that staff can do that.

Director Walker stated that based on his experience, he agrees that putting Title VI in planning is the right move.  Having all those resources in the planning stage, when impact studies are being done, is good because it allows having the input of all the different areas at the same time and is easier when you have all of them within reach of each other.  Planning should be at the front end.  With regard to the document, he knows a lot of the information comes from the previous year which is not available until the end of the fiscal year and sometimes not available in a timely basis. He understands why the document is coming now, based on the timeline that the feds have versus the timeline when the information becomes available.  He supports the program.

Director James agrees with the colleagues with the concerns they have.  He hopes that since this is a three year update, an executive summary format would help the Directors not be so overwhelmed.  The summary should include history of how the document has been updated in the past.  It would also help to start the process earlier so the Directors are aware of it and can start getting information.  GM Washington appreciated the comment.  He thinks the last time they did an executive summary and he will look at that.

Director Deadwyler stated that she knows they are going to move the report forward, but she still feel like there is no excuse for getting the document so late, when it is done every three years and that department is only working on that.  She thinks it could have been doable and workable if proper planning was on top of the list.  She still doesn’t believe it belongs in planning.  This process is not working and something needs to be done.   She also questioned the expertise of the staff that will be handling the issues in planning.  She will sit with Mike Turner to see what they have done in this area and how they will address all the aspects of Civil Rights.  She doesn’t want staff to blindside the Board with something so important and putting them in the position of just trusting them.

Director Rivera-Malpiede assured Director Folska, that there are many people in this community that will never learn to speak English.  She also mentioned that she has had the privilege to work with Mr. Turner in several environmental impact statements and she has seen him interact with the Latino Community where he is very well respected.  She has been with him on the East Line and he has helped her on health impact assessments to get a better understanding of who lives in the community, including all diversities, every disability, every language, every service that was lacking and how to move it forward.  She believes that they are all here to work together and there is not any kind of underlining deal to circumvent the community, which is not the vision or the mission.  She believes that Mr. Turner’s credentials are excellent.

Director Folska stated that this is a very important policy and this is what they are tasked to do.  She did not get a chance to read all of it, and because of that she will not support it.  With regard to Director Rivera-Malpiede’s comments, she did not say that all people can learn English and she was not saying Mr. Turner is not capable.

Director Lubow stated that it is a good suggestion on moving things forward by having an executive summary.  But the whole document is very useful and if there is an executive summary she would like to be able to upload the prior documents that the executive summary refers to.

Director James agreed with Director Lubow that making the other documents available should help them better understand.  He also stated that he thinks moving Title VI to planning to allow it to be proactive is a good idea.  He is Chair of the Planning and Development committee.  The idea of having all the process far ahead in the planning state is good and he will support the initiative.

Director Anderson stated that coming from a family with members that were displaced by I-25 and I-70 and also knowing many of the people that when displaced moved out to Arvada, she thinks that having the Title VI issues addressed at an early stage is very important.  With regard to the document, she skimmed through it, a lot of things refer to material the Directors have received in the past, and she does not think they need to read page by page.  She trusts the staff to do their job and to make sure that when we send something to the FTA is correct and puts the agency’s best foot forward.  She will appreciate an executive summary and all documents should be available to all Directors.  This is very important; she would have nothing to judge it by but it looks thorough and she expects it will meet the FTA criteria.  By not moving it forward, the Board will put the agency’s future in jeopardy.

Director Solano stated that he is representing the constituents, people that are legal residents but cannot speak English and have not been provided information about the bus systems or RTD in Spanish.  He had to make special requests for that type of information.  RTD has not been proactive in a diverse way in his area.  He will vote no.

Director Anderson stated that she has found all the information for FasTrack and Bus services in Spanish.  She has also worked with the people in Adams County to give them a better community.  She has also checked on opportunities for them to learn English and there are many volunteers to help people learn English.

Director Solano stated that there is no requirement to speak English to be American.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED to the recommended action.

##### a. 2013-2015 Title VI Program Update Final

##### b. 2013-2015 Title VI Program Update - Executive Summary

#### 1. Contracted Fixed Route Services Update 4th Quarter 2012

Bruce Abel introduced the Contracted Service Group Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager; Greg Smith Manager of Competitive Services; Brian Matthews Manager of Special Services and Larry Buter, Paratransit Manager.  He also mentioned that the managers of the various service contractors were in the audience.

Bruce Abel requested to reverse the order of the updates and present the Contracted Fixed Route update first since it relates to the other updates.

Greg Smith stated that the performance statistics for the year-to-date 4th Quarter are in the packet.  First Transit Commerce City and Veolia did not meet goal in the preventable accident ratio per 100,000 miles.  With regard to miles between lost service road calls Veolia did not meet year-to-date goal; however RTD staff has worked with their maintenance department to ensure the quality of repairs made on buses and as a result in the 4th quarter alone they did meet the goal.  Bruce Abel stated that this quarterly report also reflect year-to-date.  They discussed with the Board the challenges they were having in the maintenance arena and the performance has improved over the quarter.  They continue to have challenges with on-time performance as result of fewer services and ridership increases.  Staff continues to campaign and try to improve those problem areas and work towards improving those particular routes.

Director Lubow asked for clarification on what non-preventable accidents are.  Bruce Abel stated that preventable accidents are those were the operator did not do everything within his/her power to prevent the accident, non-preventable is out of the purview of the operator.  One example is a passenger slips on a bus stop on ice.  That is a passenger accident but not something that RTD has management control of.  On preventable accidents they do training with the operators.  Director Lubow asked how failure to meet performance standard by some of the contractors compares to RTD own employees.  Bruce Abel stated that the report shows comparable performance regardless of who the service provider is.

Director Daly asked for a reminder of some other non-preventable accidents.  Greg Smith mentioned that some of the non-preventable accidents review during 2012 included passengers getting on the bus, tripping on their own feet and hurting themselves; passengers falling from the seat for no apparent reason and injuring themselves or passengers de-boarding the bus and tripping on the last step.

Director Sisk asked if 88% of on-time performance is really acceptable to RTD.  Bruce Abel stated that the goal set each year as part of the budgeting process is 88%.  By industry standards, it is an aggressive goal, which means that our performance is a lot better than many of our peers.  He mentioned that San Francisco celebrated when they got 68%.  GM Washington mentioned that their general manager still got a bonus.  Bruce Abel also stated RTD holds itself to higher standard, but due to service reduction and passenger increases we have been challenged to meet our own standard.  Another piece is that typically they expect to spend 1% or 1.5% of service expansion every day just to keep up with traffic growth which slows us down.  As passenger load grows, dwelling time (time spent in the boarding process) also grows.  As processes take longer if we don’t have money to build in more service we fall behind on the schedules.  In an ideal world we would have about a 1% or 1.5% of the budget to expand the service, but we haven’t had the luxury.  Director Sisk asked if the bus is a minute late would that be factored in.  Bruce Abel stated that the definition of on-time is the bus does not get more than a minute earlier or more than five minutes late.

Director Hoy asked if the shortfall for the on-time performance can be addressed by changing the time because we are always late or are those instances made up of anomalies that just happen.  Bruce stated that they have policy schedules and policy headways from a marketing perspective.  When they have a bus that is policy headway for every 30 minutes, when traffic allows the bus to complete the trip in 30 minutes we are great.  But if either traffic grows or passenger volume grows and it takes more time for people to board the bus they have two options, add another bus or be consistently late.  These are some of the tradeoffs of having policy headways.  Director Hoy asked for clarification on the data included in the report.  Bruce Abel stated that these numbers show the year-to-date.  That is why they make special note to talk about each quarter.  However that is the way the report has been formatted.  Director Hoy stated that it is harder to interpret today, if somebody made a dramatic improvement it might not show up in the report.

Director Lasater stated that looking at the 5-6 year comparison it seems that in the top categories for 2012 seems to have been a tremendous failure.  This based on the complaints report and is a trend that concerns him.  Bruce Abel asked if they were moving into the next subject.  Chair Tobiassen stated that they would finish the issue of on-time performance and move to this issue.

Director Deadwyler asked regarding on-time performance what happens when a driver has to pick up a passenger with heavy load that may take extra minutes and pushes that driver off schedule.   She asked if this would affect the driver.  Bruce Abel stated that it is reflected in decrease of on-time performance.  In terms of the drivers they are all aware that the priority is safety.  In cases where they examine in-depth performance of a route and they find that an operator is not performing as we would like, they provide training for the operator.  Director Deadwyler stated that she is glad that they are not punished, but she has heard that in many cases passengers have been passed up.  Bruce Abel stated that the only time they are allowed to pass a passenger up is if the bus is filled to capacity which hopefully they would have a bus following.

Director Daly clarified for Director Lasater that the column labeled 2012 goals is not the performance; it is what was set as the goal for the year.

#### 2. Customer Complaint Summary 4th Quarter 2012

Bruce Abel stated that the report is included in the packet.  Carolyn Conover stated that they do see increases in complaints but in many cases it relates to services changes in 2012.  When services cuts occur, there are more passengers riding on fewer routes.  One of the main categories is “bus did not show” or “bus was late.”   When staff receives a complaint they investigate, looking at video and playbacks of the CAD/ADL system, but even if the complaint is not valid, they can’t take it off the report.

Director Lubow noticed that the report states than in some cases it is just a perception.  She hears from people who are annoyed.  This people will get a response back from the scheduling department telling them than the stats don’t show a problem.   An area that she has heard has nothing to do with bus being late or not showing up, but that the schedule change doesn’t make sense. There doesn’t seem to be a way where the fact that the customer is dissatisfied is addressed appropriately.  Bruce Abel stated that all complaints are reviewed, they use several different means.  The schedule may well not make any sense for a particular individual but schedule is set according to the majority of users.  Another issue is that Directors hear from the individuals that have complaints.  But the survey shows that there is a high majority of customers that are satisfied with the service.  Director Lubow stated that she doesn’t doubt that, but there has to be a way to address those customers that have a sincere concern.   Bruce Abel stated that they take every complaint seriously and all complains are investigated; however the users might not be satisfied with the assessment.

Director Deadwyler agrees with Director Lubow because she gets a lot of calls from people that want to complain and they don’t reach to the call center because they’ve had bad experiences and nothing has been done.  That affects the stats because they stop calling.  RTD needs to have a process so that people don’t feel that they cannot report something because RTD doesn’t believe them.  We need a program that addresses each case and stop sending generic letters.  Bruce Abel stated that he did not imply that they are not valid, and he will be glad to explain to the Board members what the process is.

Director Walker has had good luck with the way the staff has addressed the complaints.  He thanked the staff for their help; he feels that all comments have been look into.

Director Solano went back to on-time performance and stated that First Transit Commerce City is consistently poor and they are negotiating a labor agreement and that might be affecting the on-time performance.

Director Bagley asked for Directors to stay on the right item.  Director Solano stated that this was on-time performance.  Director Tobiassen stated that the items order had been changed.

Director Hoy stated that we do a million passenger trips; it seems that he gets a complaint once a month.  He rides the bus very regularly and probably has complained once and he was wrong and the staff was right.

#### 3. Access-a-Ride Services Update 4th Quarter 2012

Bruce Abel stated that the Access-a-Ride services report with updates on ridership, revenue hours, on-time performance and customer complaints is included in the Board packet.   Larry Buter stated that on-time performance continues to improve as a result of a recent change to reinforce a six minute wait policy for pick-ups.

Director Deadwyler stated she is concerned about the statement on the six minutes wait, because some of the users have trouble getting to the street due to their disability and sometimes they have to wait more than six minutes for the bus to arrive.  She wonders if that is something that needs to be addressed with the contractor.   Bruce Abel stated that some people are disabled and live in units where there is no provision to have shelter.  RTD is trying to work on a case by case basis, so that if they are in that kind of situation, RTD calls ahead so they have time to get to the front door of their multi-family dwelling unit and get to the vehicle in six minutes.  Director Deadwyler stated that she appreciates that, but also wants to know what else is being done to provide flexibility.  Bruce Abel stated they are trying to make sure that one customer pick up does not impact other people that are also waiting for the service.  They just signed the contract for the Interactive Voice Response (IVR) so that people can sign up for the service and they will be automatically contacted 10 minutes before the vehicle gets to their location.  Director Deadwyler stated that she really appreciates their efforts to improve, as they get a lot of complaints from the family members.

Director Folska asked for definition of what the IVR system is.  Bruce Abel stated that the IVR will allow the computer do some of the work.  At this point RTD doesn’t have the person power to make outbound calls to track every vehicle and call every customer and inform them where the vehicle is.  The IVR and on-board computer systems will work with the Global Position System (GPS) to identify where the vehicle is and it will automatically call the user 10 minutes before the vehicle arrives.  Another feature is to have automatic call backs at night to remind the users of the next day schedule.  Also a person can call in and ask where their ride is and the system can inform them.   Director Folska asked if this will work for access-a-cab.  Bruce Abel stated that it is only for access-a-ride because those are the vehicles that are under RTD managerial control.  Larry Buter stated that the system will help with access-a-cab in how the trip is booked.  Instead of calling the call center the user will be able to call IVR and the system will prompt the user for some information and transfer the call to the selected cab company and the user will work directly with the reservation desk at the cab company.  Director Folska asked if the call center would go away.  Larry stated that they are just removing the process of scheduling access-a-cab trip.  Users will always have the option to talk to an operator at the call center.  Director Folska clarified if the process is that when users want to schedule an access-a-cab, they call the system and it goes directly to the cab company.  If they call the call center, they have to wait in line, and then the call center faxes or emails the order to the cab company.  Larry stated that it is correct.

Director Tobiassen asked if the IVR has been implemented.  Bruce Abel stated that they just finalized the contract negotiation.  Director Tobiassen asked what the expected day of delivery is.  Larry stated that they said the turnaround would be 180 days, but this is a project shared with the TIC department so it might take a little longer than that.  Director Tobiassen asked them to keep the Board informed as they receive a lot of complaints for the access-a-cab service.  Larry mentioned that they met with the cab companies and are committed to meet quarterly.  Also the TIC department will track the access-the-cab complaints and forward them to the corresponding cab company for their response.

Director Deadwyler asked if it is true that the cab companies are using private contractors and they have a choice to pick up the passenger or not and they can refused to transport a disable passenger.  Bruce Abel answered that yes, the cab driver is an independent contractor, working with yellow cab.  However they are not supposed to refuse service.

##### a. AAR Qrtly Board Statistics Qtr 4

##### b. RouteMatch Metrics QTR 4 2012

##### c. Complaint Report 4th Qrt 2012

#### 4. Special Services Report  4th Quarter 2012

Bruce Abel and Brian Matthews, Manager, stated that the report is included in the Board Packet.

##### a. Special Services Monthly Report 4th Qtr 2012

#### 5. Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Project Status Update

Bruce Abel and Trent Ratcliff stated that that the report is included in the Board Packet.  They had a brief conversation about this with the action item related to the FCC changing the radio specifications.

Director Hoy asked what the new schedule for installation is.  George Hovey stated that it is August.

Director Tobiassen asked if all of Director Lasater’s questions have been addressed.  Director Lasater stated that they were.

#### 6. Smart Card Project Status Update

Bruce Abel introduced Beverly Scott, Assistant Project Manager, and Judy McMurphy who recently joined RTD in the IT area.  As stated in the packet, Gary Googins left RTD and they are in the process of transitioning the project.  They are reviewing the project schedule and milestones and will advise the Board if there is any impact on the schedule.

Beverly stated that they recorded over 1.1 million taps in February and in March they have recorded 750,000 expecting to surpass the amount in February.  They are seeing a successful implementation at this point.

Director Menten asked if the Denver Downtown Partnership is paying for the two additional validators mentioned in the report.  Beverly clarified that RTD is paying for them but the Denver Downtown Partnership approval is required for the electric feed because they own it.  They have received the approval to use their right of way for the 18th and California and they will place a validator closer to the end of the train.  They expect to be able to move forward with the 16th and California as well.

Director Folska asked if they can provide information on what is being collected from the riders.  Bruce and Beverley stated that they can discuss that offline and review the program objectives, the type of information collected and what it is being used for.

Director Bagley stated that this program is important for RTD to become relevant in the way we access information and how the fares are provided.  They were in Washington DC and they had the experience to use the smartcard and it is fantastic.  He asked them to keep up the good work.

Director Sisk stated that this is the technological edge that we need to avoid people in lines and the soonest it can be implemented throughout the region the better.

Director Walker echoed the comments.  He has received good comments from users even though it is in early stages.

Director Tobiassen asked if they know how many should have tapped versus the actual taps.  Beverly stated that on a week day they are getting 55,000 they think should be closer to 70,000 but they are validating.  Bruce Abel stated that the benchmark was set against prior years EcoPass records.  It has been up and down.  Director Tobiassen stated that we will need to know in the future to make sure.

#### 7. 4th Quarter 2012 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary

David Genova and John Tarbert, Transit Police Chief, stated that the report is in the packet.

Director Lasater asked if since we transition security companies has that affected the statistics decreasing warning and citations.  John Tarbert stated that the change did not affect as it happened in February.

Director Hoy stated that there seems to be three times more warnings as citations.  He wondered if the change from the state legislators from a felony to a misdemeanor.  John Tarbert stated that the change was from a misdemeanor to a traffic infraction.  The activities of all the fare enforcements have not changed.   David Genova stated that they have talked about doing away with the policy of first time violator getting a warning, but decided to leave things the way they were and monitor to see if there was a rise on activity.  There doesn’t seem to be a difference.

Director Tobiassen has been riding 15L on Colfax and the feedback from drivers and customers about the Aurora police officer riding the buses has been positive.  He also mentioned that he is in the E470 Corridor, they have implemented a program where the state patrol provides a list of stolen plates to E470 and they can identify stolen vehicles going through the express toll.  He acknowledged the RTD parking staff and noted they have been implementing similar program in our parking to identify stolen vehicles.  John Tarbert stated that this is being done as a public service at no cost for RTD.

Director Solano mentioned that he attended a forum on truckers against human trafficking.  They approached him because that might be taking place in the transit industry.   John Tarbert stated that it has not been addressed specifically to them.  However, anything can happen on public transit, but they are not aware of anything like that.  GM Washington stated that this is a topic with high visibility at the national level.  They have talked to the drivers stressing that if they see something out of the norm they need to report it immediately.  FTA has requested to add this issue in the training for all transit agencies.

##### a. Fare Enforcement Statistics - 4th Qtr 2012

##### b. RTD Fare Enforcement Facts

#### 8. 2011 RTD Customer Satisfaction Research Results: Executive Summary

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager Communications and Dennis Yaklich, Acting Market Research Manager, provided a presentation on the Customer Satisfaction Research focused on lifetime customer value, frequency of use and forgiveness of service issues.  Presentation included the key findings in the areas of bus, light rail, call-N-ride and Skyride.  He also mentioned they are sending 8,000 mailers for a survey on access-a-ride, which will be mailed this month.  He mentioned that more details are available if the Directors wish to review them.

Director Folska asked how many mailers they have sent for other services and what was the response.  Dennis Yaklich stated they sent 16,000 out and that 37% was the overall response.  Director Folska asked for the cost of the mailer.  Dennis stated that those 16,000 were not mailed, those customers had the option to respond by mail and a pre-paid envelope was provided.   He was not sure of the total amount but will look for that information and provide it to her.

Director Anderson asked for clarification about the low scoring from those users that have to pay for parking.  Dennis stated that only out of district users have to pay for parking.  Scott Reed stated that overnight in district users receive the first 24 hours free but if they park longer they would have to pay.

##### a. Executive Summary - 2011 RTD Customer Satisfaction Research Results

### D. Other Matters

There were no other matters.

### F. Adjourn

Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 7:49p.m. to the Financial Administration and Audit Committee.