2020-12-02 Ad Hoc Safety and Security
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Safety and security ad hoc committee to order. It is Wednesday,
December 2 already, and it's 8:00 AM. And I have Director Lewis, Director Williams, Director
Guissinger, Director Walker, and myself, along with Chief Grado, Mr. Jensen, our Assistant
General Manager, John McKay, Marisela Sandoval, our General Counsel for this committee, Mr.
Meader, the Assistant General Manager, Deputy Chief Steve Martingano, and I think that's it. If I
missed anybody, please forgive me and just say your name.
OK, well, thank you. And as you know, the plan was that today was going to be our last official
committee meeting and then we were going to go forward. Our task really was to take a look at
the proposed five year plan that the Safety and Security Department wanted to move forward to
the Board. But it's become very clear to me that we've had a couple of hiccups. We've had some
hiccups with our platform and having public participation. And then additionally, I think that,
really, we have so much more work to do.
We need to slow it down, maybe just a little bit, and move this forward through January, and not
complete our work in December. We'd ask the Board members to take a look at the white paper
and to make any additions or corrections. And I know people are extraordinarily busy, so I would
really appreciate it if people could take a look at that and add any comments or suggestions in
that white paper. I reviewed it a couple of different times and I think that there are some pieces in
here that are extraordinary that I want to really focus on.
The first one is under section-- the first one, which is Phase 2021 on the Reorg, and really
beginning the phase process to complete the security model change which would eliminate the
use of armed security officers as first responders in the mobile patrol cars as fair enforcement
throughout the commuter rail system, which was a huge issue in the community last year. And so
I think that that's one piece I'd like to talk about today. And the second one is actually about the
community outreach and the plan of action as we move forward, really trying to develop a pretty
inclusive districtwide inclusion of community members who would be able to hear from the
Chief and his team, their plan of action where they would do a presentation, and then the
community could ask questions or make suggestions.
And then from that point on, as we move it forward to the Board, that this be part of the
operations in Audit Committee that, quarterly, we would have an update and would revisit this in
depth to make sure that we do have our finger on the pulse. We are moving forward in an
inclusive and culturally sensitive manner. So those are the couple pieces that I have. Any
comments from anybody?
OK, Chief, do you want to talk a little bit about this since you're talking to Mr. Meader? Oh, go
ahead, Jeff.
JEFF WALKER: I'm sorry. What was the first item you mentioned? Community outreach was
the second.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, the first one is the beginning, the process to complete the
security model change which would eliminate the use of armed security officers as first
responders in mobile patrol cars and as fair enforcement throughout the commuter rail system.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Chief, before I go there, safety moment. I keep forgetting
this stuff. Sorry, guys. As you know, the numbers have escalated in COVID to the point of really
serious concern. And so I went on a website where you could put in your zip code. My zip code
is 80211 and it showed me that there were 100,000 people who lived in my neighborhood. And
out of that 100,000, 35,659 people tested positive for COVID.
That is an extraordinary number. And with that in mind, I would just ask everybody on this
phone call-- and I know that we are all very, very concerned about not just ourselves but our
community and our family members-- to continue to really be diligent about washing your
hands, wearing a mask, and staying six feet apart from each other. And if you can, just stay at
home to make sure that we can get this virus under control. And now with the word that the
vaccinations are coming, I think that that's really very, very good news, but we are not anywhere
near out of the woods on this. So that's my safety moment. OK, Chief?
BOB GRADO: That was a great safety moment, by the way. So did you want to speak-- from
what I'm understanding you want to talk about the concerns of how we're utilizing the security
right now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, the idea is to phase in this first piece in 2021. What is
exactly your plan to move that forward?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Rivera-Malpiede, I don't think you can see it but my hand has
been raised.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry, Director Lewis. I can't see it. Let me go to
Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah, thank you so much. I just wanted to make a few comments and
one suggestion. The first comment is just to thank the committee for re-evaluating and pushing
this decision out a bit to give us more time to really meaningfully dialogue in the conversation
and the opportunity to work in partnership with our communities, particularly those that are
interested in safety and security here at RTD. One of the questions that I have around the
community engagement I just wanted to clarify. You are asking-- you are presenting that
community engagement as a strategy? I wasn't really clear what you were saying in that piece.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, so on the community engagement, that seems to be one of
the big, big issues, is that we really need to be doing a much better job in communicating with
the community at large. And that means that maybe we really need to look at this a little bit
differently than it's been looked at before and incorporate all of the platforms that are now
available to us in terms of working and deciphering information out. Because our district is so

huge, it seems to me that perhaps we need to set up a telephone town hall meeting, number one,
in all 15 districts, to let everyone in the district know what the plan is, and so that they can call in
and ask questions, and that the Chief and Mr. Meader and their team have the ability to set up a
panel discussion so people can actually hear from them what the plan is. So that's the first thing.
The second thing is really setting up the ability for any Board member to host a meeting in their
community and have this team go with them, whether it be on the Zoom platform, Meetings
platform, Google platform, whatever works for you. And then as we move forward in the next
year, hopefully, and we can see each other again, maybe some town hall meetings where
community members can come and hear what's happening, and how we are moving forward as
an agency and any questions and concerns that they may have. So really, it's much more of an
inclusive, districtwide strategy that we would work with Ms. Tonilas and her team on, and with
every Board Director.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Great. That's great. I appreciate that. And I know we discussed that and I
just wanted to clarify that that's what you were saying. So I appreciate that clarity.
I really appreciate this idea around a meeting in the box where the Board member could say, hey,
I'd like to meet with these constituents and then staff can support that. I think that's a great idea.
The only thing that I would add where I think there is an opportunity for us to partner with
community is there are other transit agencies that have put forward task force work groups. I
know I sent you all the framework of such a group. But I do think that a community safety work
group could work in tandem or in partnership with-- parallel, rather, and in partnership, for this
based approach that's being presented by safety and security. And so that's the only piece that I
would add, is that I think there are other models and other transit agencies that we might be able
to pull from in terms of designs to really get some robust community engagement and
participation in how we move forward as a district. But those are all my comments. I just wanted
to clarify. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Any other comments from any other
Board members? I'm seeing no. Oh, someone's got their-- Lynn, Director Guissinger.
Did we figure out a thing like people had trouble calling into this meeting last week. Do we have
people that are able to call in today?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We see a number of people that are called in and I was able to call in
prior to the meeting as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not see anyone with their hand up, though, to make a couple
of comments.
BARBARA MCMANUS: If they're on the call-- if they're calling in, they're not going to be able
to put their hand up. So if you're going to ask for public participation, I see a number of numbers.
Maybe you want to call by phone number.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can do that. So the last two digits of seven two, do you have
any questions or any comments?
AUDIENCE: No, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Last two digits four eight, do you have any
questions or comments? Not hearing anything. Last two digits zero four, do you have any
comments or questions? All right, not hearing anything. Last two digits one eight, do you have
any comments or questions?
AUDIENCE: No, but thank you very much for asking.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Last two digits four three, do you have any
comments or questions?
AUDIENCE: Yes, this is Michael Scott Ramming of 3356 North Franklin Street. Cole
neighborhood. I have some written comments regarding last week's meeting and the technical
difficulties, but also just the lack of information for the public, that it's unclear which of the new
positions are planned to be armed versus unarmed. And we've been requesting more time to
study multiple security models that truly serve the communities rather than necessarily inflating
the headcount within the transit police. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Last two digits, five eight, do you have any
comments or questions?
AUDIENCE: No, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Five nine?
AUDIENCE: Yes, hi. This is Bob [INAUDIBLE]. I noticed in the agenda packet that there was
reference to a mental health component which I would applaud. I did see that from the
illustration of a position to be assigned and feared that there was one slot for mental health in the
number four, if I'm not mistaken, in that one slot. Did that mean that there would be four mental
health workers employed in 2021?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm going to have Chief Grado respond to that.
BOB GRADO: Yes, actually, there is. Currently, we have one mental health clinician. And we
moved some funding around in conjunction with some grant assistance, so next year we're
adding three more. So we'll have four full time mental health clinicians that work specifically for
RTD.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Chief, that would be full time, seven days a week?
BOB GRADO: Yeah, we have to be very creative with the scheduling because with four it's kind
of tough. But the idea is to have them available when we have the most ridership out there.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Does that answer your question, sir?
AUDIENCE: Yes. Thank you, Chief. One other question. What about nighttime?
BOB GRADO: Yeah, we do plan on having some folks working during the evening hours as
well. Again, we have to be very creative when you have four, seven days a week, 24 hours a day.
So we'll be creative and be looking at the calls for service and put them out there where they're
most efficient.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. One seven, do you have any questions or
comments?
AUDIENCE: Yeah, I believe them I'm one seven, five two one seven.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
LOREN HANSON: I actually do have some comments and a question. My name is Loren
Hansen. I'm actually in District C, Malpiede's. And I would just like to make a comment that I
think that the formats of these meetings is insane. I think that we need to be more accessible. I
know how to dial in because I'm an individual that goes to these meetings regularly. But a
regular person dialing a 10 digit extension and then dialing an additional 9 digit extension is
difficult. And my question in regards to that is, will you guys be moving to a videoconferencing
platform or something kind of similar that allows for more accessibility beyond just the
conferencing software that seems to be from, like, the '90s?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That is a great question, Loren. And as you know, we have been
working really diligently to make sure that we've been able to communicate with the community
because of our inability to meet in person. I do know that our Board Office and our IT
Department have been working pretty diligently, looking at every platform and trying to figure
out the best way to have meetings. And there have been some glitches for sure, but I can assure
you that before every meeting and after every meeting, everybody sits in a room to try and figure
out what the next best method might be.
And I think the other part that we've been running into is because all the public school systems
are using platforms like we are, it's crashing a lot of them. But other than that, that's what I know.
Mr. McKay, would you like to jump in and just talk a little bit about the plan and how we've
moved forward with this?
JOHN MCKAY: Yeah, this is John McKay from the Board Office. We are in the final phases of
testing the video conferencing, using a streaming system that will display the teams meeting that
we're in right now. So you'll still have the option for a dial in, but then on our meeting portal
page, you'll be able to just click a link on a banner at the top of the page. Once the meeting goes
live, you'll just be able to click one link to be able to get into the meeting and just watch it. You
won't be able to participate in the meeting that way. You'd still have to dial in to be able to speak
just because if you're watching a stream you're only watching a YouTube video rather than being
able to participate live, but that's the plan going forward.

AUDIENCE: OK. And out of curiosity, do you guys have any jobs in your IT Departments?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That I don't know. You could check the website.
AUDIENCE: I mean, I'm not sys admin level, but I can work my way around a computer.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sure. Check out our website. All of our jobs are listed there. We
are in a hiring freeze, but just check it out. Thank you, Loren.
AUDIENCE: All right. Thank you, too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Then I think what [COUGHING] next is we've talked
a little bit about the white paper. And Marisela, if you wouldn't mind just kind of walking us
through-- I know you said you needed the information by today, but since we're extending this,
can we have a little bit more time to look at the white paper and make any additions or
suggestions?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Of course. I think I can send out an updated-- so we did get a few
comments. So if Barbara or John wouldn't mind helping send out and circulate the latest version,
I would appreciate that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: And I can talk with Barbara and John about timing of it all, but if
you can look at it over the next few days and just provide any comments, we would appreciate
that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so very much. Any other comments from any other
Board members? I'm not seeing anything. All right. We've talked about the ad hoc committee,
we've talked about the transit police community outreach, and we'll have more on that. And then
the approval of the recommended action, I would like to say that let's not move forward with that
until we reconvene this committee and delve into it a little bit more. Director Lewis, I would
hope that you would submit your suggestions in terms of the transit advisory group that you're
thinking of. Is there anything else to come before this committee?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Lewis here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah, I will and I have. So I submitted the framework for what I was
thinking. If you all would like me to flush that completely out, I'm happy to. I know I've had
conversations with Director Walker, and so he may have more information than other Directors
on this call because he's just open in that way and I appreciate it. But I'm more than happy to
provide you with a very detailed document for each one of you.

The second thing is I actually did have a question and that's why my hand was up. You said that
we were delaying this. I just wanted to, in my mind, get some hard deadlines. So how long are
we delaying the vote for, and when are we expected to provide additional suggestions?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, for me right now, I'm saying that we're going to move this
through the month of January. And I think that our committee work will then look at it and make
sure that we have all of our questions answered and that we've moved forward in a way that we
all feel comfortable and confident with what's moving forward.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK. So we shouldn't anticipate or we should anticipate that we'll have
another meeting next Wednesday in which we would need to deliberate to have something
available for January? Or are you saying that our next meeting wouldn't be until January?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, that's a good question. And we haven't gotten to that point.
And so I would ask Mr. Meader-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: You don't have to.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: You don't have to do it in the moment. I just wanted to clarify.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, no, we'll get back with you on that. But because we are
moving it forward, we'll go back and look at the schedule and the timeline and get that out to you
guys as soon as possible.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Sounds good. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Cool.
BOB GRADO: Chair-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BOB GRADO: Did you want me to-- this is Bob Grado. Did you want me to speak to phase one
or-- we started going there and then we got sidetracked.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. If you wouldn't mind going through phase one, I think that
would be really helpful for all of us to hear.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, I'm glad to do that because I just want to remind everybody. Phase one is
really just setting the foundation for the next phases. And I can't remember who-- somebody was
asking about armed versus unarmed, so let me just start.
So phase one we're going to complete. We currently have vacancies that are unfilled. So that's
the first thing we'll do is finish filling those vacancies for some police officers and sergeants. So

phase one-- I refer to it as the foundation because we're such a small policing unit right now, we
need to build our foundation in order to be able to take on more officers, and responsibilities, and
the training that goes with that. So again, we're adding these officers and some supervisors.
Every year, we look at grant funding. Our plan is to try and get some more grant funding, full
funding, for another canine officer. We've got two canines out there right now and we keep them
running. It's a great tool to keep the system moving if we have suspicious bags left behind and
things like that. So again, that is grant funded. The RTD doesn't pay for those positions.
Another big part of our foundation is-- a lot of questions come up regarding data and calls for
service. We did send out some documentation to this committee and we're happy to share that
publicly. It looked at the last two years. But a big hole that we have is having crime data analysts
on Board. And they are great for helping us with deployments, and just being smart how we're
staffing, and looking at the big picture, if you will.
The other part is we've got a couple of 9-1-1 centers that we operate. They're taking in 55,000
calls each year through these centers. And they're overwhelmed. So our goal through phase one,
again, to build the foundation, is to add a supervisor for training and quality assurance and a
program administrator. And then the big part next year is getting to the unarmed positions.
Our goal is to-- it's going to be a process-- but is to go to a traditional conductor model.
Currently we're using armed security officers to do the fare enforcement portion. So a lot of these
positions you see out there are people that are actually assigned to fare enforcement. It's going to
be a process because there's regulatory things involved and maybe Dave Jensen can speak to that.
But we would like to phase out of the armed fare enforcement program, go to a traditional
conductor program, and again, that's going to take a lot of our time in 2021.
And then the last piece-- obviously we're excited about the community outreach part and getting
engagement and feedback from people. So our ask right now is really just to get started on phase
one to get this foundation built and work through all these processes. It's going to be a live
document.
So another idea we had was some agencies have community service officers that are unarmed, so
there's a lot of things we can do here and we're happy to do that. We work for the public, we
work for the agency, and we're listening. So the ask right now, again-- I'm repeating myself-- is
just to get started.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Jensen and then Director Guissinger.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, good morning. So I really wanted just to give a quick update on the
conductor's concept. And I've had at least two meetings in this last week regarding that very
thing. And I am finding out that the title might make a difference, so we're really working
through the logistics of it. At the end of the day, it's very doable. It's a reasonable expectation
that we can get this accomplished.

What it looks like, and the names and titles we use, those are the logistics we're going to have to
work through. Some of the N line-- I still think first quarter is realistic because it's smaller scale.
We're finding out some interesting things in terms of the Railroad Retirement Board. If there is a
certain number of annual hours that a certain classification like Conductors works, they may
have to pay into the Railroad Retirement Board and then that would be a significant expense to
the agency. So what we have to do is we have to really vet out what those hours are, what those
positions are, what those duties are. And so we're working through that process.
I guess what I'm saying is we might end up with a different title. We might start with Transit
Safety Ambassador rather than Conductor. But conceptually, it will be the same thing, second
crew person on a train. So we will have accomplished what we need to. It's just how we go about
it. And then the other thing, really, that's critical for that success-AUDIENCE: Brody. Hey, baby.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Can somebody mute their phone, please?
DAVE JENSEN: I don't think that was for me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
DAVE JENSEN: The other thing that will be critical to our success, too, is really our
collaboration and partnership with DTO/DTP because they're directly impacted by this. And so
we've really had cursory conversations at most with them. And so we've begun at least speaking
to them and then beginning the process in earnest with them, to work with them on making sure
that we're all pleased with the outcome. So I just wanted to provide that background.
And then maybe one last thing for everybody listening, too. If we end up with the title Conductor
or Ambassador, it won't be considered a security element because they won't be providing any
security. So in the securities projections of what they're building out, Conductors, really, at the
end of the day, won't be part of that. They'll be part of rail operations and performing functions
for rail operations. So that's what I have. Thank you for the time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I have a couple questions. And I'll submit that feedback in
terms of the report that's moving forward. But I think there's a lot of good work here. And I
appreciate all the work that you've all done.
I don't feel like it's really reflected in the report and in the written document. And that's not
Marisela at all. It's just the plan that was given to us. One caller asked, who's armed and who's
unarmed? And if you read this, it just looks like we're hiring a bunch of new officers. And I'd
like to see the trade off, that by this date we expect to be cutting these other costs in this way,
and bringing on Safety Ambassadors, or whatever, who are unarmed, so that it reflects the good
side a little better than what I see now.

In terms of both budgetary savings-- the budget that's shown here shows the expenses. Where are
we saving money? Where's that going to balance out? And just in the description as well-- who's
coming in, or who's going out, I guess is the question. Is it contracted officers? I'd like to see
some of that information.
And then pardon me while I jump into a governance diversion here. And Angie may get sick of
me saying this, although I know she's set up this ad hoc committee to look at it. But this is a
perfect example of how a small committee of the Board-- if we go from whole committees,
committees of the whole, to smaller committees, we can work with staff, I think, to work on an
ongoing basis. Otherwise you may need this ad hoc committee for a long time to give the kind of
feedback that it sounds like Chief Grado and Mr. Meader and others are looking for. So those are
my suggestions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And I never get tired of hearing you talk about this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, thank you, Angie.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, any other comments or questions from Board members at
this time? All right. That's all I have on our agenda. Is there any other matters to come before this
committee? Oh, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I'm not going to be on the Board anymore come January. So you
might want to look at filling this seat-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: --with somebody starting now, or I'm more than willing and more than happy
to be your first citizen member going into January if you want. But I won't be able to vote on
anything.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great.
JEFF WALKER: So I can be your Guinea pig on how that works.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Walker. That's really great. Yeah. OK, did I
see someone else's hand? I do not see anyone else in the queue.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. Director Walker, that's actually why I asked about the
timeline because I was concerned about a quorum and what the process might be to catch
somebody up who hasn't had the opportunity to participate in the meetings to the extent that we
have, and to have access to the information that Director Walker would have had, which is why I
asked about the timeline if it's in December or January. Because I think it's an important factor.

I actually agree with Director Guissinger. There is some opportunity here to really flesh out the
work that's been happening, both behind the scenes and in the public sphere when we have the
opportunity to do so. And so I think that's important. I believe Chief Grado is asking if we can
move forward in this. And I would just restate again that there are some assurances that I'd like
to see in this plan before OKing it to move forward in 2021. And they're simple. They're simple
assurances and Chief Grado knows this. And so I just wanted to state that because it sounded as
though we asked a question directly and I wanted to directly respond to his request.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And you're right. We are going to be looking at, how
does this change the dynamic of the Board members who are part of this ad hoc committee if we
move it forward to January? And how do we implement that whole component? So if you will
bear with us, we will be working on that and then going forward as we learn more to get to all of
you. OK, let's see. I'm seeing someone else. Chief.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, I just wanted to respond to Director Lewis. Yeah, I'm fine postponing if
we need to do that, because obviously we want this to be good for everybody involved. And
yeah, the ask was for phase one. And part of that, I think, is a lot of what we've been talking
about, Director Lewis, if we can get language in there that makes you comfortable and
everybody really and truly comfortable with this thing. And then I wanted to also say, because
we have new people listening now-- it sounds like we've got a bigger group.
This is not an expansion of security. It's a reallocation. I don't see any savings, financially, that
will come out of this. We're just reallocating our model. We're changing it around. There are
certain requirements we have to do federally. And we have to be careful of what is shared
publicly because some of this is security sensitive information.
But the goal here is by building our internal capabilities is to reduce the contracted staff that's out
there. At the end of the day, we will have a smaller group, not a larger group. So I think there's
some confusion to that when people see this org chart.
And when you look at this org chart it's really very conservative, considering we cover 2,400
square miles, eight counties. We're a very large geographic agency. So I just wanted to throw
that out there because we have some new people listening.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Anyone else?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Sorry. Director Lewis. One more comment. I just received a message
from a constituent saying, I've had my call dropped four times so far. As a result, I didn't hear
what the Board office is in final testing. Did I hear streaming? So maybe-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. McKay?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: You might repeat that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. John, could you once again talk about the plan for
streaming? I wonder-- are you muted? Barbara, can you perhaps talk about that?

BARBARA MCMANUS: So we have been discussing with IT different streaming platforms.
We've done some testing on a few, but as the Chair said in the beginning of this meeting, each
platform has its own pros and cons. And for our Board meetings, we have been using a
combination of two platforms to get the end result that we need. And it is not a viable choice for
all other meetings because of the cost. So we are working on what different options are and as
soon as we get everything in place and make sure that everything is tested thoroughly with IT,
we will hopefully be doing some streaming. And Director Lewis, did you realize that you're
sharing your screen?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm sorry?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Did you realize that you're sharing your screen?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm sharing my screen to you?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, I am seeing your livestream instead of my meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I am also.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am also.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Oh, no, I did not. I'm so sorry about that.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Now I don't see-- oh.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, now the video is shut down but the screen is still shared.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thanks for tuning in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's on our meeting.
JOHN MCKAY: So this is John. Can you hear me at this point?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Thank you, sir.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, now we're back to our meeting.
JOHN MCKAY: Coincidentally, what Director Lewis was just showing was sort of like the
platform that we'll end up using. So it'll basically be a screen share of a team's meeting that will
be streamed. So there are a lot of component systems that need to integrate and work together in
order to make that happen. But that's essentially what a meeting will look like without a lot of the
white space. It'll show the speakers who are in the room and the Board will be able to raise their
hands. Instead of having to go through an alphabetical listing of every Director who's in the
room, they can just raise their hands if they choose to sign in on the Teams platform.

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: John, do you mind-- sorry, Madam Chair. John, do you mind talking
about how the public might participate during public comment? And I ask because I've seen
examples at the city and county of Denver, also with the state legislature, and so I'm just curious
as to what our thinking is.
JOHN MCKAY: The plan at the moment-- this is still John. The plan at the moment is, for any
meeting for which there is public participation, to use the Broadnet system that we were using
last night. So callers would still need to get into the queue by dialing the 855 number and then
pressing star 3 at the appropriate time during the meeting. So that is something that will still
incur costs when we use that because there is a per person per minute charge for every time we
use Broadnet, which is actually why we're using that obnoxious extra 10 digit number for this
because it's a number generated by the meeting instant. So every time we create a Teams meeting
there is a dial in number that is created along with it, which unfortunately, in order to get into the
specific meeting you do need to know that 10 digit code which we do publish on the agendas.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: You don't have to respond to this, but I did see some examples with the
city and county of Denver and also with the state legislature where you actually could Zoom-- I
guess it's Zoom-- but you could video in to the meeting to participate in public comment. Thank
you for that. I appreciate it. I don't have any other questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. All right, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, just two quick things. Shontel, I'm interested in the assurances you
asked for. If you're sending something in, I'd like to see it as well.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. And just to clarify for Bob that in asking about the savings, I'm
not looking for it to save money over where we are now. I understand that it will cost us some
insurance. It's just that right now what the budget reflects is additional expenditures and I'm
hearing what you're saying. You have some things you don't want to put out there. Maybe you
don't know. But I guess I'd like to see that it's not all additional expenditures in some way.
Maybe it's even just written in there that you're expecting over the course of next year, three
years, or five years, or whatever it is, to be balancing out the costs or something, whatever that
is.
BOB GRADO: OK, yeah. Well, let me take a look at that with our cost control person and see if
we can make this a little more clear. We were very general in that just because there's so much
detail in it. But let us see if we can do that. And I think there is a way to show the exchange that's
taking place. I'll have to have some people help me that are more creative than I am with that.
The other part, to answer your question-- I hate to do this, but Mike, I know your voice is not
great right now. But I think, Director Guissinger, are you talking about-- there's a statement in
there about funds that were taken away that we're concerned about. Our budget is really tight
because we do have a $6 million overall reduction through the COVID fiscal task force. And
then recently, we had another 1.5 million that was taken out of the budget for 2021 which was a

bit of a surprise to us. We understand we have to have a balanced budget as we've said, so that
was a concern. Mike, is that something you-- are you able to speak? I know you've got some
laryngitis issues.
SPEAKER 3: Yeah. No, Bob, it's not laryngitis. I just got this crazy cough. This COVID thing's
a bugger.
BOB GRADO: Yeah. But basically what I was trying to share, Director Guissinger, is, as Chief
mentioned, there was some dollars moved around. It's a timing issue, really, more than anything.
To hire a police officer is a four to five month process because of all of the things that have to
take place. And in that process-- [COUGHING] I apologize for that. And we have to consider, if
we're going to move dollars from the security contract into our transit police, for us to just take
those dollars out and take people off the street, and have a lapse of three or four months where
we don't have those additional resources, it could possibly create some issues for us. So
ultimately, what we want to do is reallocate those funds. But it's kind of a bridge loan for lack of
a better term, so to speak, to ensure that we can continue to have the security we need while
we're getting those transit police officers up to speed and certified to take the place of those
individuals.
So it's a delicate balance. We're working to look at how we can move those dollars around,
maintaining the security levels we need, until we get into this new model. So that's really what it
is. There was not going to be any long term additional cost. It's really just about the timing of it.
Does that make sense?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That makes great sense. And first of all, I wish you well. I hope that you
feel better. I'm sorry that you're sick.
But I also have to say, I'm not looking for anything different from what you're saying. I just think
that we could reflect in the proposal better that that balance is the ultimate goal. I get it that it's
not going to be a one to one. It would take these dollars and move them right here to get the start
up time. The overall this is where we're going, we're moving towards people that are working for
us, and that will save us. And we will be dropping off in other areas. And just make some of that
more explicit. I'm not trying to change your plan. I just think that we could maybe express it
better.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger, perhaps they might add a footnote
explaining those-LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --components so that we're not changing the document. We're
just adding additional footnotes with information. Is that what you're thinking?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That'd probably be OK. I think that in a couple of places, one just the
prose, that this is where we're going with it, that you wish you didn't have all of these-- we hire
this transit officer, and this person, and this person, we'd be moving others out and the other in

the budget. And maybe it is just a footnote that these are not fully extra expenses as I understand
it, but over the course of time, that money will start to-- I use the word balance out. I'm not
saying it has to be an exactly one for one, but that there are savings even as we're spending more
as well. That's if I understand it correctly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, and in light of that, the other thing I was thinking of is
because this report would move forward quarterly through the year in the committee, it seems to
me that we could add to that as we move forward because it's a fluid document in terms of what
could possibly happen in the next year on how the budget might change or be whatever it is. So I
think that a footnote might be a good way to provide more clarity to the community and to the
Board about what the plan is, and if there are changes that they'd be reflected in there as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Anyone else? I don't see anybody. OK, any other matters to
come before this ad hoc committee, ladies and gentlemen? Director Williams, do you have
something?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, thank you. I think this has been a really productive meeting. I feel like
we got a bunch done and we know where we're going forward. And I want to really thank
Director Walker. I think that was really great for him to volunteer to be involved in the future.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, with nothing else I'd like to adjourn the
meeting. It is now 8:48. And ladies and gentlemen, have a great day, and thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you.
BOB GRADO: Thanks everyone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.

