1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, December 6, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 9:16 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present

Arrived
9:16 PM
9:16 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Remote
Present

9:15 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Committee Chair

Present
Present

9:16 PM
9:16 PM

Bill James

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

9:18 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Absent

9:16 PM
9:16 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Chair of the Board
Director, District D

Present
Present

9:15 PM
9:16 PM

Directors Lasater and Solano were absent. Director Anderson and Deadwyler participated
via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tina Aragon, Rolf Asphaug, Chessy Brady, Gina Callahan,
Jeff Cluphf, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, John Ewy, David Genova, Doug
Gragg, Erik Haugen, John Hersey, Brian Iacono, Ali Imansepahi, Ann
Marie Isaac-Heslop, Kate Iverson, Beverly Lindsay, Adrian Mabry,
Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, James Maguire, Barbara McManus,
Jeff Miessel, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin Parker, Mace Pemberton, Gary
Schear, Roger Sherman, Zamy Silva, Bill Sirois, Dana Steele, Errol
Stevens, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Rebecca Tate, Doug
Tisdale, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Kate Williams, Susan
Wood, Clayton Woodruff

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Patty Doersch, William Gross, Anne
Miano, Roger Sherman, John Thompson, Joe Tripplett, Gary Van
Dorn, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• I-225
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, stated
that the Kiewit Team continues to test the R Line and the entire team is
working days and nights to continue their work. He said that once Kiewit
finishes their work, Rail Operations can complete pre-revenue testing. He
commented that the biggest challenge right now is the train traffic interface
in the downtown loop. He added that testing is underway, but an opening
date will not be released at this time. He remarked that the R Line, minus
the downtown loop, is ready to be transferred to Rail Operations.

• North Metro Operations & Maintenance
Henry Stopplecamp stated that this item deals with how RTD will operate
and maintain North Metro. He said last time he approached the Board there
were three items to consider: extend the contract with Denver Transit
Partners (DTP), put the Commuter Rail under RTD Rail Operations, or hire a
Third Party operator. He remarked that staff has explored all three options,
and it would be cost effective to allow DTP to maintain the commuter rail
fleet. He added that staff continues to review the options and they are
examining the cost benefits and associated risks.

D. Other Matters
Director Menten asked for the status of the Intergovernmental Agreements (IGA)
for the West and North Metro Lines.
Henry Stopplecamp indicated that the IGA’s for the West line are completed. He
said for North Metro, the IGA’s for construction are in place, but staff still has to
put into place IGA’s for Operations and Maintenance.
Director Bagley stated that he had attended the Denver South Economic Partnership
Holiday event and he had over 20 conversations about the Southwest Corridor
extension. He wanted to hand that off to the new Board as there is interest in
getting that project completed.
Henry Stopplecamp noted that there will be a University of Colorado A-Line
Technical Update on Wednesday, December 14th from 12:30 – 2:00 p.m. He
added that a third temporary shelter had been installed at Broadway and Lincoln,
and all temporary shelters will be completed by this week.
Director Menten asked from a drivers point of view, how long are drivers actually
waiting at the gate crossings on the University of Colorado A-Line.
Henry Stopplecamp stated that the crossing arms are only down for one minute.
He remarked that there is a longer wait when Union Pacific changes tracks, as their
trains cause RTD’s crossing arms to go down too, but the wait times are not longer
than a minute.

E. Next Meeting Date - January 10, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 9:26 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

