2024-04-25
Executive Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good afternoon, everyone. The Thursday, April 24 executive committee will now come
to order. We are convened as of 12:02 PM. This is Chair Davidson speaking, and I would respectfully ask
everyone attending this meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely via Zoom
and are audio and video recorded. Meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings,
are posted as soon as practicable to the Board's website. During today's meeting, we are also providing
communication access real-time translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this
service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be
provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of the meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also accessible via
RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call for the role of executive-- call the roll for executive committee
members. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Bouquet.
JACK KROLL: Looks like the Treasurer just hopped in.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I just called Treasure Bouquet's name. It looks like he's here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present. Thank you, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That was impeccable timing. And this is Chair Davidson. I am here. That is five
committee members present and zero absent. For the sake of the record, I see that we are also joined by
Board Director Sloan. Thank you for joining us, Director Sloan. I'll now open up for public comment to
anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda
for the current and immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, you may raise your virtual hand or press Star 9 on your
phone. During this time, the committee does not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you
would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, you may email the RTD Board Office at

rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Before reading the rest of the instructions for public comment, I'll now
check to see if anyone has raised their hand to speak. I am not seeing any here, but if Board Office
Executive Manager Kroll could confirm that there are no hands raised.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Davidson. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. There is no
one that I see who has arrived and indicated a desire to provide public comment at this time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And were there any emailed comments that were received for
today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Davidson. There were. Excuse me, Chair Davidson. No, there were not any
comments received via email in advance of this meeting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. With no participants in the queue and no public comments
received, we will close the public comment period at this time. We'll now move to recommended actions.
There is one recommended action this afternoon. As a reminder for the committee staff and anyone
watching and/or listening to this meeting, any action items that are passed by the Executive Committee,
even if the vote is unanimous, will be included on the Board agenda under recommended actions so that
the full Board will have an opportunity to discuss the measure presented.
The action item considered under the committee now will be for a bylaw amendment to change the name
of the Operations and Safety Committee. This is for the Board of Directors to amend Article 6, Committees
of the Board, Section 1, Standing Committees, Paragraph E to change the name of the Operations and
Safety Committee to the Operations, Safety, and Security Committee, and for the Board of Directors to
amend Article 4, Meetings, Section 2, Standing Committee Meetings, to reflect this name change. Do we
have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second? I hear the movement as First Vice Chair Catlin, the second as Treasurer
Bouquet. I would now like to turn the floor over to Mr. Jack Kroll, Board Office Executive Manager, for if
there is anything you would like to present on this matter.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. I'll just be very brief. I noted in the Board report that security is
already under expressly in the purview of the current committee, and so adding this doesn't necessarily
change the scope of the committee, but just provides further emphasis on that element of the committee's
duties, that being security. And this was widely supported in a consensus conversation of the Operations
and Safety Committee in a previous meeting of that committee in March.
And normally, we would go through a two-step process to amend the bylaws whereby we would have a
discussion and then an action at a subsequent Board meeting. However, this item has been discussed
quite a lot by the Board already, both at the retreat in February, and then again by the committee at its
meeting in March. And the consensus was this isn't too controversial, so let's just move it forward and get
the vote over with. So.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. Appreciate this. I think it's a good name change. I'll go
ahead and see if there's any discussion on this matter-- or recommended action, I should say. . Seeing
none, again, thank you, Mr. Kroll, for the work here, for the help. I will take the vote and I'll just go ahead

and ask, are there any no votes on this action? OK. Seeing none, with five aye votes, zero no votes, and
zero abstentions, the motion will pass. Thank you, Directors. Now, we'll just go ahead and move on to our
April Board meeting. Agenda review. I do see, Mr. Kroll, your hand is raised. Please go ahead, sir.
JACK KROLL: Yes. I apologize, Chair Davidson. I should have spent a moment, recognizing the work of
Tai-Shrae and the Board Office. She did a great deal of work to get the bylaw document actually updated
into a really more modern format that aligns with our branding, and that document had not been really
provided a lot of attention in a long time. And so kudos to Tai-Shrae for doing that work and I'm sorry I didn't
mention it earlier.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, for mentioning that. And yes, thank you, Ms. Parish, for
the work on that and for many things to turn our attention to that needs some updating. So thank you for
doing that and making progress there. I really appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. Kroll, and thank you, Ms. Parish.
All right. We'll go ahead and move to the April Board meeting agenda review. Is there a motion to move the
April Board agenda to the Board meeting on April 30?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved. Bouquet.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second. Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the moment as Treasurer Bouquet and the second as Secretary Guzman. Is there
any discussion on the Board agenda as it is outlined in the Board-- the Executive Committee's packet? Mr.
Kroll?
JACK KROLL: I just want to make one quick note. The packet that we produce for the executive committee
contained the work plans for the Executive, Finance, and Operations and Safety Committees. It did not
include the Performance Committee work plan because it had been carried over-- this item, this discussion
item had been carried over from the March meeting to the April meeting. Unless there's any objections, I'd
just like to add the Performance Committee's work plan into that discussion item as sort of a clerical fix that
we didn't include it in this initial packet.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for highlighting that, Mr Kroll. Yeah, good. Good note there. I have no
concerns adding that and I'm happy to put forward that we would add that. Is there any discussion or any
concerns from other Directors regarding that clerical adjustment? All right, seeing none, that sounds great.
Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Let's go ahead and add that in. Any other questions or discussion regarding the April
agenda?
OK. Go ahead and call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? Being none with five aye votes,
zero no votes, and zero abstentions, the motion passes. The Board agenda will move forward to April 30.
There are three discussion items on the agenda. The first is for the draft property and station naming
policies. This time, I'll hand the floor to Executive Manager Kroll to please present the item. Before you do
take the floor, I just want to acknowledge and thank everybody for working together.
I'm sure, Mr. Kroll, you'll acknowledge there this has been a staff undertaking as well as the a undertaking.
I know Director Sloan and Director Ruscha worked together with Mr. Davies, with Mr. Kroll, and many others
on staff that I'm sure we'll hear about more from you, Mr Kroll. And I just would like to thank everybody for
the collaborative effort. So with that being said, Board Office Executive Manager Kroll, the floor is yours.
JACK KROLL: Great. Thank you, Chair Davidson, and I will spend the next few minutes giving you all an
overview of where we're at with this. What I want to specifically discuss and give you a sense of is what the

existing policies are with respect to station naming and property naming, detail how this group that you had
asked to come together and look into this matter surveyed other agencies and got feedback from the APTA
landscape, or rather the transit agency landscape across the country, what we have done so far to develop
the proposed ideas that are in front of you all for discussion today, and then actually run through at the end
of the presentation what those proposals are and open it up for discussion and feedback and input.
I want to emphasize this is by no means the only opportunity to provide input on this. There'll be a number
of other avenues. You can always reach out via phone. You can email to get that input in. Director Lewis,
who I don't believe has joined us yet, has shared significant input since this item came forward and was on
the agenda in March but tabled to April. And that's just one example of folks reaching out and providing
input. So where is the policy now and where did it come from?
The Board's current policy is actually an amalgamation of three prior actions taken in '94, 2003, and 2011.
And as we will see later in this meeting, in our conversation and discussion around the CAC's charter, the
habit has been for the Board to take actions to set policy via recommended action, but not to have the
document really live anywhere. There isn't a single policy document that we can point to that says, this is
the RTD Board of Directors' policy on station and property naming.
Rather, it is the three actions that were previously taken, and you have to go back and review those and
get a sense of what the policy is in order to chart a path forward here. We, of course, did that. The three
actions were '94, 2003, and then 2011. The key takeaways from the '94 and 2003 actions were that
geographic location, wayfinding should be the primary factor in setting a station name. And then in 2003,
the Board expressly stated that they could opt for a different station name and expanded that policy beyond
just light rail stops.
Finally, that 2003 action also acknowledged that station names should be kept short. Again, we've got a lot
of signage throughout the system. You don't want to have very long names. You want to make sure that
these things fit where they can be easily accessible to the public. In 2011, the Board acted again. This was
as RTD was getting closer to building out some of the final stages of the FasTracks project with commuter
rail, et cetera. That action set forward the idea that the Board and RTD would work with the local
communities to set station names two years in advance.
And we want to emphasize this element here, that the committee-- or the communities in which the stations
are located are involved in the naming process, and that's very important for where this conversation will
go later. And then it also opened the door, as I mentioned, to corporate sponsorships and outlines that the
costs of any changes to station names be borne by the requester.
But I think we have to view that element of the policy through the lens that if RTD, say, worked with the city
of Lakewood to set the name of a light rail station in that municipality and everyone agreed to it, and then
the city came back later and asked to change the name, that would be a conversation around sharing those
costs or having the city provide those costs. I don't think that really applies to if you had a group come to
you from the outside and request that the name of a station be changed to honor an individual or an event,
et cetera.
And then fast forward to today in 2024, the Board asked staff to work with a couple Directors earlier this
year to bring back some recommendations, and that's where we're at. So we did reach out as part of our
initial work to other APTA members. The substantive responses we got back were from these four agencies.
Those are LA Metro, WMATA, Corpus Christi, and Houston Metro. The takeaways from our outreach across
the APTA landscape is that many agencies just simply do not have a policy for naming properties.

If the agencies do have a policy, here are some of the key elements of it. Honorary naming is to be done
rarely and only in the most deserving of circumstances. If it is done, it should be done as a secondary name,
retaining that wayfinding and geographic proximity elements of the initial name or the official name or the
wayfinding name, if you will, as the primary station name. And then, of course, as you move through this
process, community engagement is absolutely paramount because these stations are significant parts of
the communities in which they are located or significant assets for those communities.
You want to make sure that in any station naming process, you've got a lot of community input. Here are a
few examples of stations that have been renamed in honor of individuals across the country. It is very rare.
This is not an exhaustive list, but this is a list of rather meticulously researched-- we can't say for sure we
know all of the stations that have been renamed, but as you can see, it's not very common, especially for
regional transit systems such as RTD to do it.
The first two examples, Willowbrook-Rosa Parks station in Los Angeles and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
station in Miami are the only two that are strictly for regional transit systems. The other three examples
listed here are inner city rail facilities in some shape or form. So there are alternatives. As we reached out
across the APTA landscape and learned from our peers, there are ways to honor significant individuals and
parts of the community that want to be recognized or have that energy to recognize a member of their
community.
Those energies can be channeled towards honorary plaques and displays. The Board can always do a
proclamation. Many agencies have avoided renaming stations, instead preferring to rename administrative
buildings or maintenance facilities. That way they can keep their station names paramount with the idea of
wayfinding being central to naming of that station. That isn't to say that you all can't do this. I'm just saying
that there are options here.
For example, we have already-- or you all have already-- actually, the agency has placed plaques at Civic
Center Station honoring the Gang of 19 and Wade Blank, for example. So what was our process and
progress to date, and what are our next steps and the final goals for the work that we're doing? So as
Director Davidson mentioned at the outset here, Director Sloan, Director Ruscha, myself, and Government
Relations Officer Michael Davies, have been the group driving much of this conversation.
We've been taking input from staff across the agency, from other Directors, from outside entities, as I've
highlighted towards the bottom of this slide. We had three meetings. One was just to do an initial brainstorm.
Another was to review the actual draft policy, and the third was to review and provide feedback on draft
procedures for how a name change would occur or an honorary name would be added. And the final thing
I'll note here is this was originally slated to come to you all in March, but was tabled to the April meeting
due to March's agenda being very full at the Executive Committee.
What we hope to produce and bring back to you all, likely in May, is a document that coalesces RTD's
property and station naming policy. As I mentioned earlier, right now this exists only in the form of three
previous Board actions taken. There is not a single policy document, and I think that's important to have as
we move forward and really button things down. The second element that we would bring back is a policy
and procedures document that outlines the honorary property naming policy and process.
So you have your overall broader station naming policy, and then you have a subset of that which is specific
to how you would tackle honorary names. And the third element, as we've done our work here, is offering
recommendations for further areas of inquiry for the Board. So obviously we did homework, we did

research, and we noticed certain things along the way that might give rise or might be sufficient if the Board
so chooses to look into further.
So our next steps. We're going to get the feedback from you all here as well as from the full Board at next
week's meeting. Depending on the nature and the extent of that feedback, the group that I mentioned
previously will meet one to two additional times. I should note that Director Ruscha has noted some
concerns with what we have brought forward. I believe she's interested in circulating something to the Board
prior to next week's meeting. If and when we do receive that document, I'll send it out.
So I'm not certain Director Ruscha will partake in those additional meetings of the group. If she does wish
to partake, we would be more than happy to have her, of course. And then in May, a final policy and
procedures document would be presented-- or documents would be presented as a recommended action
at the executive committee. Should you all approve, that would go to the full Board for approval in May.
And so all of that has led us to where we are now. Yes, Director Catlin. I see you have a question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, no. Go ahead and finish. I just was hoping that we could get some comments from
Director Sloan regarding-JACK KROLL: Yeah. My plan was to wrap up the presentation and then kick it to her and-- to Director Sloan
and Government Relations Officer Michael Davies to back me up on all of this.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
JACK KROLL: So we set forward some guiding principles. Again, based off of our research, we really
wanted to make sure that anything that we proposed kept wayfinding and navigability of the system as the
primary focus of any naming. Honorary naming, therefore, if it were to be approved, would be a secondary
name for any property. Again, expanding the universe to not just include stations but also all properties. I
will say specifically, though, this doesn't mean, we exempted-- and this was some feedback we got from
others.
This isn't meant to provide an avenue to, say, rename a bus stop. That is just not as significant of a thing
for the Board to necessarily be involved in. I think if there were some appetite for that, that might be a
conversation that staff would pick up and set some policies around that. I don't think that rises to the level
of the Board. I think I heard we have over 9,000 bus stops, so it's really not a route you all want to go down.
I think it would just kind of open can of worms there.
The community engagement, again, is invalidation of our prerequisite, and that's reflected in the proposals.
It can't be for individuals, groups, or events. So I think sometimes we think of individuals as giving cause to
or giving rise to the need to rename a station or the call to rename a property. But it could also, in theory,
be for groups or individuals that have had significant impacts on transit. And finally, it should be done rarely
and only for extraordinary individuals, groups, or events who we can directly tie to having an impact on
transit.
I think that's key here is connecting it to transit either at the national level or the local level. And as part of
those elements, the current policy proposal is that it could not be in honor of a former RTD Director, and if
honoring an individual, that individual must be deceased for a minimum of 10 years. So here's the meat of
things. The process as we're proposing has four key steps. First is to have an application. That application
would be submitted through the Board Office.

There would be letters of support from local community leaders, a summary provided by those proposing
the honorary name, in support effect of why whomever or whatever group they would like to propose an
honorary name for is deserving of this honor. And then finally-- and this is, again, relating back to the
significance of getting support from the communities in which these stations reside or these properties
reside, is that there would need to be a resolution of support from the local City Council or Board of County
Commissioners.
Second, once a completed application packet was received, the Board Chair then works with the Board
Office and the GM and CEO to impanel a committee comprised of internal and external experts in a number
of different areas, a group that we think would bring a very diverse voice to the table. Third, once that
committee gets together, reviews the application and the supporting materials, they would make a
recommendation.
I think it's important to note that the Board may choose to either adopt that recommendation or not. So the
committee could propose to go forward with the name change and the Board could reject that. The
committee could propose not to move forward with the name change or the honorary name additions,
rather, and the Board could choose to say thank you for that. We still hold the right to do it, and we believe
it deserves this recognition.
But before, in between the committee making their recommendation and the Board considering the matter
as an action item, staff would take the time to provide input on the cost to do the name change or to add
the honorary name, as well as the timeline. There was a lot of signage across the system. These things are
not easily updated overnight. And then finally, following that information being available from staff, the two
items there from staff would be combined with the committee's recommendation, along with the application
packet.
All of that would be put forward to the Board for consideration. And we are proposing, given the weightiness
of this, that it would need 2/3 vote to be made official. And I'm just about wrapping up here. Where we're
specifically looking for feedback, although we're open to any and all of it, is on the composition of the review
committee, whether there should be Director involvement at that stage of the process, whether to require
that higher bar of 2/3 or to simply have a majority vote.
And then two other items here is whether to develop a rubric for the committee to use in evaluating proposed
honorary names, and lastly, whether the proposed requirements to submit an honorary naming proposal
are too burdensome or too easy. And with that, that concludes my presentation, and I would like to
encourage the Chair to recognize Director Sloan and/or Government Relations Officer Michael Davies if
they had anything further they would like to add.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, and thank you for the hard work on this and putting
together a thoughtful approach with the team here and a thoughtful presentation. I'll first turn to Director
Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Great. Wonderful job of putting together all the various ideas that the committee talked
about. I think what we have done is reached a policy on an important consideration that we really, as Jack
said, it took him some time to just review to see where the policy on naming RTD property is, and he has
done a great job pulling it together. And so that's the policy for naming. The procedure did take a little bit
more discussion because this is an important issue, and I believe having the outside assistance of a
committee of experts would be really helpful in making the name change.

So I am all in favor of having that committee. I would just like to point out, just briefly-- and I believe it was
Arapahoe County named their jail after a hero sheriff that everybody loved, and it turned out he was trading
drugs for sex with underage inmates, and they had to change the name of the jail. We don't want to make
any kind of mistake, and it's helpful to have a history for the named person on and an evaluation of the Civil
Rights aspect.
So I think the committee idea is a significant idea. I believe there might be some contention about that.
Other than that, I would like to point out two things that came up as something that the Board could consider
in relationship with this policy, and we're suggesting that it come later. But I think the Board should know
about both of these because it might be we want to fold everything in at one time.
One is probably any group who wants to have an honorary name for RTD property might have public art
proposals as well. And I understand getting together public art policy and getting it in conjunction with our
current one would take quite a bit of time, but it does seem relevant to the naming process as well. Another
suggestion that I think would be fun, but it would be a different discussion, and that would be the temporary
naming of RTD property for any event that's occurring or an individual.
You can think of our sports teams. An individual who would like to be honored for a day or a week or
whatever. But that's not in this policy. As is, I am all in favor of going forward, hearing Board comments on
it, making adjustments and, actually finalizing a policy. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. Thank you for the commitment and work on this. Really
appreciate that. I know Mr. Kroll referenced Mr. Davies. Mr. Davies, no need to comment unless you'd like
to, but I'm happy to open the floor to you next if there's anything you'd like to touch upon.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair Davidson. No, I don't have any further comments beyond what has
been said so far. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you, and thank you for your work, Mr. Davies, on this. I'll go ahead and
facilitate questions now, as per Mr. Kroll's request on this, or I believe the invitation is also for any other
input items as per packet page 69 with those points looking for feedback. So any Directors, I'm happy to
recognize you if you raise your hand. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Hi, y'all. So real quick, just running down the list of looking for feedback. The only
question I have about the historians is what makes them recognized. Is it somebody from the university?
Just a question about that language to be very clear about who we're asking to join that type of committee.
Opinion. I do think the second bullet point to require 2/3 of the body to vote is necessary. I don't think it
should be a simple majority. These are serious issues, and to Director Sloan's point, mistakes can be made
that we don't want to have to undo because we didn't do our due diligence. And so somebody may have
an opinion, and that should be discussed. I think a rubric is probably a really good idea. I don't know what
that would look like, so I'd like to see some examples of maybe what could be before weighing in too heavily
on that one.
And then I don't know that it's too burdensome or too easy. I think you found the via media in between what
we're looking for and what's going forward. I will say this. Because the body is the ultimate adjudicator of
this decision, I do think it would be best if the Director stayed out of it and received the recommended action
at the end of this process instead of being involved in it during so we can receive it with an open mind and
be more deliberate about the decision that we make as a body. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Secretary. I appreciate all of the feedback there. I know there
was an initial question about the historian involvement. Mr. Kroll, is there any feedback you wanted to offer
on that?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, I think that's really a good observation. In my mind, we have a lot of great historical
resources available to us being in Denver. You have folks who are professionals over at Colorado History
as well as the Denver Public Library, not to mention, three major universities within Denver with significant
history departments.
And I think maybe spelling out something, including some language that gave some shape to that without
being overly restrictive and saying prominent historian being someone who might come from one of those
institutions, but maybe not necessarily. I do want to also mention that I received some feedback from
Director Lewis around the historian element. He thought it would be appropriate and he asked me to share
it since he wasn't able to join us this morning. He thought maybe it would be appropriate to only have one
as opposed to two.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Other questions and/or feedback, particularly on that slide that the
Secretary went through there from other Directors?
JACK KROLL: I do have-ERIK DAVIDSON: Great, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: I just have some additional feedback from Director Lewis to share whenever is appropriate.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. I have two questions I'd like to ask, and then I'd be happy to offer my
feedback on packet page 69 and the points you're looking for feedback on. The first question I have for
anyone that worked on this, Mr. Kroll or Director Sloan or Mr. Davies. When you were investigating the
policies of other transit agencies, did you come across any-- I know you said there was a number that had
an absence of any kind of policy. Were there any policies that just completely restrict or prevent any
renaming? And if so, would you mind touching on where those were or what you learned with regards to
that?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, that's a great question, Director Davidson, and I think I had actually included a
reference to Houston Metro's policy on this in my initial Board discussion item to cue up the idea of even
having a group come together and bring forward proposals. Houston Metro actually expressly prohibits the
renaming or naming of a station in honor of an individual. And we had some conversations too with Denver
City and County folks within their Parks Department.
Obviously, there has been a significant public reckoning with some elements of our history and individuals
who have long enjoyed prominent recognition on the names of public facilities, et cetera, and that has
proven-- historical hindsight has given a lot of opportunities for communities to revisit the wisdom of those
decisions to honor individuals. I believe Director Sloan provided one very notable example. And so I think
organizations that do not allow for this type of thing are predominantly concerned about the reputational
risk that could transpire as a result of renaming or naming something after someone who was later deemed
to be unworthy.
The second element is one-- and I think the second concern, and we've heard this throughout both from
staff feedback, from other Directors, and from external entities, is once you open the door to naming a
property or a place after an individual or group, you can often invite a conversation where you're picking

winners and losers. And I think some organizations certainly just want to avoid all of that altogether and just
say, hey, we're a transit agency. We're here to focus on transit agency things. That's beyond something
that we want to spend our time and energy on.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for discussing that. I think definitely what resonates with me is what you just
said at the end. I think we just would need to be cognizant when we build the policy itself and what our
procedures are when the Board takes the vote-- and this is going to inform-- I'm jumping ahead a little bit-the question as to whether to develop a rubric, I think that would be critical.
Because I think that even though the Board's evaluation is somewhat-- or the vote is somewhat
discretionary and based on multiple inputs such as cost and the inputs that would ultimately come not just
from the committee in step two, but staff recommendations on three. I think we just need to make sure that
whatever we craft, if we proceed with this, is highly objective so that we have a scoring process and a rubric
process so that that final vote never opens up what would ultimately be, I would say, qualitative judgments
of, as you framed from other-- the thought, I think, around Houston, that the idea of picking winners and
losers can't really be part of it.
So I think it's just a cautionary remark as we do hone in on a policy and a policy recommendation and why
I would say I think a rubric actually has to be essential is because the voting and scoring process for that
2/3 needs to be as absolutely objective as possible. I had another question and some feedback, but I'm
going to pause because I do see First Vice Chair Catlin. I'm happy to hand the floor to you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Mr. Chair. You know, I really think, as you stated, Chair Davidson, that a rubric
is really important. Was there any discussion at all about a kind of a pay to play guideline? I'm thinking of
university buildings, Jack, that have been named after people who bequeathed a large sum of money,
would we be so fortunate as to have somebody bequeath money. I'm just a little bit concerned about that
and how we would address that within the context of the rubric. Go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Chair? Yeah, thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: I have a limited answer, and then I think General Counsel Snyder can chime in if I've missed
something here. We didn't really consider what if there was an attempt to name a station by bequeathing a
gift. What we did consider, and I hit on this a little bit earlier in the presentation, is the part of the policy as
it currently exists that would require an outside entity requesting a name change to bear the cost of that.
We had some strong concerns in our conversations around the equity of that. Some of these individuals
who deserve recognition at the level that we would be requiring them to meet as far as being prominent
and having contributed significantly is one that doesn't always overlap with significant financial wherewithal.
So that was a significant concern of ours as we went through.
And we would recommend that any such honorary naming not have that expectation attached to it, that the
group would have to come with the money to the table. The other element that I would say is I actually don't
think RTD-- and this is a legal question for General Counsel Snyder. I don't believe RTD is even eligible to
accept gifts like that if one were even to be made. But I might be speaking out of turn here. So Chair, I
would defer to the General Counsel on it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I just was raising that as if something were to happen and we were to turn it
down on for other reasons, but somebody was saying, well, why would RTD turn something down when

there's money attached to it? I just want to make sure that when the rubric is crafted, it takes into account
some of those elements. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair. General Counsel Snyder, is there anything you'd like to
weigh in on that matter?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Chair. I think the only other thing I would flag is just we're talking about
honorary naming, and certainly the idea of a revenue generating agreement is kind of in a different bucket
and category. It is something on a policy level that the Board should be considering. What is the-- for
example, of course, we've had the A line naming rights was a prior contract that we had with University of
Colorado. So that's a different bucket, but definitely something you should be considering in parallel,
because we do have a mechanism to do that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Counsel. Appreciate it. And I think an important difference between
the two here. And thank you First Vice Chair Catlin for, again, highlighting that we just want that rubric, I
think, to be very well bounded for what the purpose of the honorary, as General Counsel highlighted. Other
questions from Directors? Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It just occurred to me about impaneling the historians. I don't know why I'm stuck on
that part, but anytime you empanel a committee, it's either asked to be volunteer or it's compensated in
some way. And so I don't see any mention of that in here. And in terms of getting a fiscal note, which is
something I know some Directors will be concerned with on this type of policy, that needs to be taken under
consideration and explained how will people's time be compensated, especially if we're going to experts to
get help and do research to ensure that we don't run into a problem. So just a thought.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Am I correct in assuming, Mr. Kroll, that the intent of the review
committee is that it would be voluntary for those that are external?
JACK KROLL: That is correct, Director Davidson. And Director Lewis, that was actually one of the items he
had flagged to and had raised a question and I responded via email to him that at this time we weren't
considering any compensation for those outside individuals as being a part of this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. The other question that I had was with respect to whether or not the
group had considered any limits. In other words, number that maybe-- the number of these that may be
done over some period of time or in total, to have a long term view of what the impact may be. Were there
any discussions on limits from a total quantitative number, whether that's over a time or total across the
agency?
JACK KROLL: Director Davidson, I think you've raised a very interesting point, and we did have some brief
conversations around this but didn't settle on anything. Director Lewis also raised this issue in some of his
comments to me. And what I am imagining at this point is we probably need to add something to that before
we put it forward to a vote.
And one of the things that I have toyed with-- and this is not-- this is just a brainstorm right here in the
meeting-- is do you open the application window for a certain amount of time each year, then have that
application window closed. Then if you have received applications, more than one, the committee would
then review all of those and rank them and you would limit it to, say, one or two proposals being eligible to
move forward each year.

And in doing so, you would judge those. Since the rubric idea has a lot of merit and support, you would
evaluate those proposals relative to that rubric and score them accordingly. And then you would limit it in
that way, because I do think it is a lot. We need to have something in here, if this is something the Board
wants to support, that does sort of meter that traffic and limit-- you don't want to be constantly having to
empanel a committee and make these types of decisions. You want to put some framework around it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for the comments. I don't think I can offer any cogent ideas
right now on scoping that, but I do think that it's worth considering just with the high level problem being
just how to make sure to, as you said, meter and maintain a long term view of all of this so we can make
sure we're not looking across the whole system every year, multiple times. But thank you for those
comments.
I'll quickly just offer, since you asked, on slide 18, packet page 69, I think the composition of the review
committee is a good composition. I think, as always, if that kind of composition didn't work, we could revisit
it. I think a 2/3 majority is actually very important, and I would agree with that, given that there will potentially
be cost impact, especially coming from the staff recommendations. I think the rubric, as I stated, is essential
and actually needs to have some connectivity to how Directors evaluate and vote at the end. And then I
think the proposed requirements, I think I would agree. I think there's a nice balance here.
I'm not sure that it's too easy or too burdensome, although it's a little hard to say without opening the spigot,
so to speak. And so I think that's where perhaps some thought process around how we might filter the front
end of this to ensure that we did get the balance right and are taking a holistic view, thinking about multiple
years. And like you said, this is-- if we were to entertain this, it would be exceptional. It would be for very
exceptional reasons.
So I think the balance is there, but it's also a little hard to know without doing it. So that's my quick two
cents. And again, thank you for the work. Any further questions from Directors? And then also, if not seeing
any, Mr. Kroll, any-- let me just start with committee members. Any other questions, comments? OK. Mr.
Kroll, you mentioned potentially some additional feedback from Director Lewis since his absence here. I
know you shared a little bit of it. Are there additional points you wanted to share with the Executive
Committee?
JACK KROLL: He actually just had those three, the number of historians moving from two to one, whether
the outside folks would be compensated, and the need to produce some sort of metering so that the number
of proposals was controlled in some way.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. OK. Well, thank you very much. Dr. Sloan, Mr. Davies, Mr. Kroll, thanks again for
working on this. I think it's great that when we identify a policy gap and we're sort of evaluating things in
abstentia, when ideas are thrown out there, it's incumbent on us to take that opportunity and look at how
we can make that a policy. So thank you for your work. Thank you to Director Ruscha, who's not here, and
for other members of staff who help support this effort. Thank you.
So not seeing any additional conversation, I understand that the action is going to be to continue to refine
this and work on this. It is coming forward to the full Board. And as I understand it, Mr. Kroll, for their
recommendations, will be coming forward for consideration in May. All right, great. Well, thank you,
everybody. I appreciate it. We'll move to our next discussion item. That is our monthly Government
Relations report for April 2024. Mr. Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer, has joined us. Thank
you for being here, and I'll turn the floor over to you to present the item.

MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair and members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. Just have a brief monthly report for you all. At the federal level, Director Tisdale, GMC
Johnson, and myself had the opportunity to go and participate in the APTA, American Public Transportation
Association's 2024 Legislative Conference. It's a great conference to pull together transit agencies from
around the country and be able to really be on the forefront of tracking policy matters at the federal level.
As a part of that conference, there's really a push to go and visit and meet with your congressional
delegation. And the three of us did have the opportunity to go and meet with a number of the offices,
specifically Senator Bennet's office, Representative Neguse's office, Representative Crow's office, and
Representative DeGette's office. One of the primary federal priorities that we talked about was really the
East Colfax BRT project that RTD is working on in collaboration with the City and County of Denver, and
received a lot of positive comments from our federal delegation on that project and a lot of support
surrounding that. Great news on that front.
Moving over to the state level. Of course, there's a number of bills that we're tracking, a number of bills that
the Board has taken a position on. Starting with Senate Bill 32, that's methods to increase the use of transit.
That really is the bill that funds the Ozone Season Transit Grant program or the grant program that funded
Zero Fare For Better Air, as well as the new funding stream and grant program for Zero Fare For Youth.
That's included in that bill. That bill has passed the Senate. It's been introduced and moved into the House.
It's not scheduled in the House yet, but before passing the Senate, we want to make sure you're all aware- and this is, I think, what should be seen as good news.
This was a policy proposal that the Board supported in previous years, which was regarding the tax credit
for employers related to, say, buying an eco pass for their employees. In the state for the last two years-this is 2023 and 2024 tax years-- employers are able to get a refundable tax credit of up to 50%. Senator
Hanson had previously supported that tax credit. Senator Hanson came back through an amendment on
this bill while on the Senate floor to extend that tax credit through 2028.
So now that will be available for employers to be able to purchase eco passes or any transit passes, for
that matter, for their employees. And as I said, that bill is not scheduled yet in the House, but anticipate that
to happen soon as we are running out of days in this legislative session. Moving on to Senate Bill 184.
That's the support surface transportation infrastructure bill. That is the bill, the Board took an amend position
on that bill. Largely the concerns surrounding that amend position was to make sure that RTD's funding
and RTD was not the driver of a study and spending RTD tax dollars on a study to study projects outside
of the RTD district.
And if you recall, this is really the suggestion of the bill sponsors to look at taking Northwest Rail corridor
and extending that to Fort Collins. Several amendments were offered by the bill sponsors on behalf of
RTD's concerns related to that. So those amendments that were taken out or that were approved was to
remove RTD as the agency that would be driving that study, and therefore the costs associated with driving
that study on a portion of the project that's outside of the RTD district.
So RTD was removed as that entity driving that study. Additionally, the Board did raise concerns with on
recognizing all unfinished FasTracks projects. And so an amendment was made to put in and make sure
that unfinished FasTracks projects were recognized in the process of contemplating any advancement of
projects, whether it's Northwest Rail, whether it's the Front Range Passenger Rail, and this concept of an
inner city project or kind of a first phase from Denver to Fort Collins.

So there was language that was put in there to make sure that all FasTracks projects are equally as
important as, as any other unfinished FasTracks project. And lastly, Director Dishell had raised some
concerns with regards to making sure that current RTD service was not sacrificed in any way as a result of
work being done by Front Range Passenger Rail, CDOT, and RTD's collaborative efforts around those
projects.
So language was also included to state that RTD's current service would not be sacrificed as a result of
trying to plan or deliver any of those additional projects. That Bill has passed the Senate. It has passed the
House Transportation, Housing, and Local Government Committee, and it is currently scheduled for later
to the day in the House Finance Committee. So it is moving along. Lastly, with regards to House Bill 1447,
this is the Transit Reform bill. Of course, the RTD Board took an opposed position on this. There was a
hearing on this bill.
Many Directors did testify, and the committee did not take any action last week during the hearing. It was
stated by bill sponsors that their intent is to remove the Board governance portion of that bill. I would
anticipate that there will be further work with stakeholders on potential amendments surrounding that bill,
as well as the actual amendment to remove the RTD Board governance piece of that bill. And that is set
for next Tuesday, April 30. That's just a simple action only by the committee, so there will not be a testimony
process with that as well. Simply be action only, but anticipate some additional amendments there.
RTD staff has not seen any of those amendments yet, and of course, we'll keep the Board up to date as
soon as we do and have a clearer picture on what will be introduced and considered for that bill. And again,
that was for next Tuesday, April 30. That's all I have at the state level. And then just lastly, touching briefly
on efforts, of course, at the local level to engage with our local municipalities and elected leaders there.
On April 3, Board Chair Davidson, GM CEO Johnson were able to present to the Metro Mayors Caucus,
and that was largely around educational efforts and actions that the Revenue Diversification Working Group
have been taking. Some good questions from mayors there and good conversation-- good opportunity for
mayors to understand RTD's full financial picture. And with that, that concludes my remarks and happy to
take any questions. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies, for the report, and thank you for your hard work in an extremely
busy legislative session. You've been highly communicative, extremely professional, representing the
agency beautifully there at the Capitol, and I know it is a lot of work that goes outside of work hours. Thank
you for all you've been doing on that. I'll go to discussion and questions from Directors on this, starting with
Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just a quick question about Senate Bill 32. Is it an either/or situation? I heard that
there might have been a language change where we need to choose between either the three month or the
year long youth fare. Are you aware of any such amendments?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Davies.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Secretary Guzman. Yes, there has been some conversations. It's
mostly related to how much funding the state has had. If you recall, as previously mentioned to the Board,
probably the main reason that this bill has been delayed since it was introduced long, long ago and it has
been sitting in Senate Appropriations for a long time.

Most of that was related to the House and Senate just doing their work to figure out the long bill and their
Appropriations' full budget for the year, and then figuring out how much money they have left over to give
to all of the bills that are also sitting there in the Appropriations Committee. So with the passage of the long
bill and moving forward there, that is what has allowed basically Senate Bill 32 to move forward. It's still not
clear to me exactly what that funding level will be, but you are correct.
There is conversation within the building of exactly what the final funding level will be and if it's enough to
cover both grants or not. And so I think still some work to be done on that, and we'll definitely keep the
Board up to date when I learn more about those potential amendments. But you are correct that there is a
notion there that maybe all of the funding that was originally appropriated in that bill might not be there in
the end.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies, for the answer. Thank you, Secretary, for the question. First Vice
Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Davies, and I echo the Chair's comments. Thanks. I know it's been a
lot of work this year. We appreciate it. You're doing great work. I have two quick questions. Is the source of
the funding for HB 32 that they're discussing still the general fund? I've heard various other sources, MMOF
and things.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Davies.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Director Guissinger. It was funded out of the general fund as the
governor proposed it in his budget, and as contemplated, I think originally. It was originally to come out of
the general fund there. Again, similar to Secretary Guzman's question, I think there's been conversation of
other pots of funding that may be available to also fund that program knowing that general fund money is
very tight in the building.
And so I think that's what I'm waiting to learn in this final process here of which pot of funding will that come
out of. I think there's been conversation to look at a potential excess MMOF money that the state may have
to also consider that as a source of funding. Which I don't think would be a permanent source of funding,
but it may be something they're considering for this year only. But more to learn on that matter, hopefully
soon.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thanks. And I think we've discussed this before, but just in case anything's
changed, do we have any data on how well used the tax credit for businesses, for eco passes is, or if it's
brought in new people? Anything like that?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Director Guissinger, great question. No data that I have been able to gather so
far. Really, that would come through the Department of Revenue, and I think they basically only have one
year. This tax year would have been when it would have been able to cover the 2023 tax year.
So I think Department of Revenue is right at that point now of being able to assess that first year of this tax
credit. I will certainly follow up with them and see if I can get any of that information. Too early in the two
authorized years of the tax credit to think produce that just yet. Regardless of data available, I will follow up
and let you know what I hear from Department of Revenue, if they're going to be able to have any of that
information.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. That's it.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Other questions from
Directors or input? Great. I just would, again, thank you, Mr. Davies, for being here. And I think we all should
stay tuned here. I know quite a bit is coming. We have the action on 1447, and bills, as I understand it, are
still continuing to come in right now with a little bit of time left.
So just encourage everybody to stay attentive, from those Directors here to stay attentive to what else may
come. Well, thank you for that. We'll go ahead and move to our final discussion item on the agenda. That
will be the Citizens Advisory Committee Charter. And I'll hand off to Executive Manager Jack Kroll to present
this item.
JACK KROLL: Great. Thank you, Chair Davidson. Just to step back and give you all a little background as
to why this item is coming forward. Last fall, or rather last summer, shortly after I started in this position,
Chair Guissinger and I began to hear from-- at the time, was Chair Guissinger. and I began to hear from
the CAC, and they were really hoping to get some further definition and support around their role in the
organization.
So we met with them in the fall, and then now current Chair Davidson, myself, and the GM and CEO Debra
Johnson met with the CAC co-chairs again this spring and really have brought forward what we believe to
be a mutually supported charter for the CAC, to define its role, its mission, its composition, and what task
it's asked to complete. As I mentioned earlier in this meeting with respect to the policies related to station
and property naming, the CAC is defined by a series of Board actions and not in a specific document as
such.
I think there's broad support from both the staff side and from the CAC side to put down in a single document
what the CAC's role is. The CAC, for just quick historical purposes, is a creation of the Board, and it was
created at the time that the Board approved the FasTracks-- that the Board approved the resolution referring
to FasTracks ballot initiative to the voters. So the CAC began with a focus on-- how do I say it? On really
just providing input on FasTracks.
And obviously we are 20 plus years late-- 20 plus years down the road, I should say, on the FasTracks
project, and the CAC still provides a lot of value. This is an attempt to define that role and that value for the
CAC and to agree specifically that we would revisit the role and purpose of the CAC within the next three
years, having set this idea forward, come back to it on a regular basis. And with that, I'm happy to take any
questions or concerns. We would, again, discuss this next week at the Board meeting and bring something
back in May for action.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, and thank you for the work on this. I think another good update as
we're revisiting and refreshing some things that needed attention, so thank you for taking that on. Any
questions or comments from Directors? All right. Well, thank you, Mr. Kroll. We look forward to seeing what
comes forward. Again, thank you for the work there. We're going to move into other matters. There are a
few things that need to come forward.
I just ask everyone to hang on for a little bit. I know sometimes other matters goes quickly, and we will go
pretty efficiently here, I believe. But we have one item that, Mr. Kroll, I believe you wanted to address, which
I'll recognize you first. I do have some items that I do want to address for committee members. Just would
ask to hold on here. So, Mr. Jack Kroll, I believe you have a topic that you'd like to address in other matters
regarding Board Office records. So I'll go ahead and recognize you first.

JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson, and I'll be brief here. When I started in the position, Tai-Shrae
was very quick to flag for me that we have a lot of records going back to the 1970s. Many of these records
are stored off-site and the district is incurring a cost to keep these records available. There is also some
concern around if we ever received a request for records that we have on hand, we would have to produce
them, and that would come at a great cost to staff time, et cetera.
So the reality is, while the Board Office is the official repository for the Board's actions, after a certain point
in time in history, the Board Office is not nearly as well equipped as, say, the Colorado State Archives or
the Denver Public Library is at maintaining public accessibility to these records. And so we engaged in a
conversation with the Colorado State Archives, and they are interested in taking some of the Board Office's
records and putting those into their files and records.
I do believe that where we're headed with this is that we would ultimately get rid of some records. But I'm
not talking official meeting minutes. I'm not talking official record of Board actions. I'm talking things like
individual Director expense reports and individual notes and compositions from Directors and memos and
things like that. There really isn't, at a certain point, a whole lot of value in maintaining those, given that the
state archives and other entities are better equipped anyways to catalog and provide access to those items.
So before any final decisions are made, we will, of course, update this group. But I did want you all to be
aware of it. This is happening in conjunction with a broader effort at RTD to better get hands around records
and have a retention schedule that's kept to. And so we are just doing our part as well in all of this to align
with efforts that are going on elsewhere within the agency with respect to record keeping.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much for highlighting that, Mr. Kroll. That all makes sense. A lot of
records, I know. Are there any comments from Directors regarding that? OK, great. Yeah. Thank you for
taking that on. And Ms. Parish, thank you for highlighting the challenges there as well. I do have just three
quick things I want to touch on here in other matters, and I'll take them one at a time here.
The first is with respect to something that came up at the last executive committee briefly. First Vice Chair
Catlin had raised the topic of our agency response system, which our entire Board Office, Maria, Julien,
Tai-Shrae, and Jack have done tremendous work on working together with staff elsewhere within the
agency to develop our agency response system and refine the way in which we receive information,
requests and requests for assistance from Directors and how those get organized and how we measure
those requests as well.
So not only how they're responded to and how they're organized, but also having good understanding of
staff time being spent on particular issues. So thank you to everybody for the work on that. When First Vice
Chair Catlin had raised this issue last month, I think some of what we were discussing was that we might
use this as an opportunity to put forward or consider some guidelines for how the Board communicates with
staff. The best way for us to maximize the use of a system like this and use it to our advantage, our collective
RTD advantage of organizing our communications, prioritizing our communications, centralizing our
responses in a way that everyone can have access to.
I think it's incumbent upon us to consider how we communicate with staff and what types of communications
occur and what we funnel through the agency response system. So since that time, I've had some chance
to interface with First Vice Chair Catlin-- and I see your hand is raised-- to consider how we might approach
this and how we might partner with the Board Office to maximize the use of the agency response system
and also leverage this as an opportunity to reduce burden that comes to staff in the form of disparate
communications.

That may be text messages and phone calls and emails, figuring out how we can formalize a lot of this to
reduce burden and also maximize the use of the system. So I remain committed to working on that. I know,
First Vice Chair Catlin, you've had a lot of thoughts about that, and I see your hands are up. I expect this. I
just wanted to highlight this and expect to be bringing forward some ideas in the forthcoming weeks. So I'll
hand off to you, First Vice Chair Catlin. I thank you for raising this last month. I'll hand the floor off to you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Chair. Yeah. I agree that we need to continue to work on that, and I
appreciate you bringing it up again, just to alert this group that we haven't dropped the ball in spite of it
being a very busy month. We do want to continue working with the Board Office so that we can, as you
said, ease the burden on staff and streamline our process and make it much more businesslike and efficient.
And also so that we're transparent and other Directors know exactly what is being requested by their fellow
Board members. So thank you for that, and we will continue to work on it and bring this forward in
subsequent meetings. Appreciate it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. I appreciate that. I think what I'll just conclude with
there is just an open invitation for Directors to provide any information to First Vice Chair Catlin or to myself
regarding what we might what we might do. I see, for the sake of the record, we were joined by Director
Tisdale. Thank you for joining us, sir. You've joined us during other matters. So I'll leave that one there and
just please reach out to me with any input that the committee may have as we consider that.
The next matter I wanted to address is with respect to TABOR. As was alluded to by Mr. Davies, I've had
the opportunity to participate in several presentations. I know many Directors have as well. Certainly we
had the Town Hall organized by Secretary Guzman, the Board Office, and many Directors participated in
that. I know Director Guissinger, you've spoken at some events. I've recently spoken at DRCOG's board
meeting, the Metro Mayors, the Metro County Commissioners, and City Councils as well.
And I'm encouraged by how the conversations around our financial position and what we face with respect
to the exemption-- or I'm sorry, the loss of the exemption of our TABOR exemption coming up. I think there's
been a fairly warm welcome and consensus that the region needs to work together with RTD to ensure that
we are maximizing the resources we have for transit wherever possible. I did just want to highlight for
Directors, we are very close to having the results from our polling.
The preliminary results do sound very encouraging. I think Director Tisdale has joined us at a great time
because I would like to reach out. I will be conferring offline with Committee Chair Tisdale, and will also
reach out with Vice Committee Chair Guzman of Finance and Planning to schedule some analysis and
review of the polling so that we can expeditiously identify the opportunities for us to look at our polling
results. The Board can expect to see a forthcoming memo coming from me highlighting some preliminary
findings.
I do think we're going to be looking at some encouraging information, and what I would say is just an open
call to Directors right now to dialogue with all stakeholders and public you interact with, to continue to
highlight the issue that RTD is facing the loss of its TABOR exemption on half its revenues at the end of
this year, and that this Board will be contemplating what to do about that. So I just wanted to highlight that
for everyone to be aware of that.
I don't think there's a whole lot to say about it other than a lot of information coming. Please pay attention
to email memos, and there's going to be some other matters, discussions, and then hopefully some
committee discussions next month. Are there any questions about that or do any other Directors want to
weigh in? I'd be remiss in not thanking Second Vice Chair Guissinger for her work in considering how to

proceed with this matter. Happy to open the floor to if you'd like. No need to say anything if you don't.
Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just super fast. I think one thing that Director Sloan and I have talked about is putting
together a memo that we'll be sending out, I think, asking all the Directors to start thinking through groups
that you would reach out to to educate them on our issue. I know some of you are doing that, but maybe
try to get that in a little more formalized way. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair. I appreciate that. Any other comments, questions?
Great. Chair Tisdale, I'll be reaching out to you soon. And again, be remiss in not thanking Mr. Davies and
General Counsel Snyder. Thank you for your continued work on the polling matters and this topic as well.
I think good news is coming. The last other matter that I had that I wanted to bring before the Board is with
respect to our meetings. We passed a bylaw and we made it a bylaw amendment and change to have our
four hour meeting length.
I think there's an opportunity right now to leverage that bylaw change, to look at also how we conduct our
business in meetings. I think the time may be now for us to take a look at rules of procedure as just one
example, and that we might consider formalizing some ways that we approach public comment, how we
approach questions for staff that inform policy decisions, how we approach discussion among Directors.
All that to say I just wanted to flag that. I think this is an important time for us to consider with our bylaw
change and with how we do business. And while Mr. Kroll has joined us at the Board Office, I think the
Board Office has been doing great work together to look at things that need to be updated or gaps that we
have, like the station naming policy we heard more about. I think there are some gaps in an opportunity to
visit how we conduct our meetings.
So I'll be touching on that a little bit more. You can expect to hear more from me on that at the upcoming
Board meeting in other matters. So I simply just wanted to highlight that for the group here. The goal is to
streamline and make efficient our Board meetings for the purposes of streamlining our decisions on policy
matters and, again, minimizing, where possible, burden to staff on fielding questions and prioritizing what
will best inform policy decisions. So not much more to say on that, unless anyone has any input that I'm
happy to take at this time.
All right, great. With that, that's the last of the other matters I had. Thanks for your patience with me, bringing
3:00 this afternoon. Are there any other matters that other Directors would like to bring before the
committee? Yes, Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I apologize. I couldn't be on the Executive Committee meeting
because I was chairing the Transit Board Members Board Talk live session we had for APTA. And I'm going
to see to it that we get the materials from that to everybody because it was on CEO evaluations and it gave
us a study of what AC Transit did out in Oakland in hiring a third party facilitator for purposes of conducting
their General Manager/CEO performance evaluation. I thought it was very useful information, so I just
wanted to share that. Secondly, I know this is probably already been addressed, and I apologize for being
the late interloper. But I was wondering, has the amended bill been dropped, amended 1447 in the
legislature?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No. Thank you, Director Tisdale. We did hear from Mr. Davies in his Government
Relations Report. It has not. There are amendments being considered. Mr. Davies did highlight for the

committee that it is scheduled for action only with no testimony next Tuesday, April 30, the day of our Board
meeting, but we do not have draft amendments at this time.
All we have are things that are circulating that are still in rumor and discussion with respect to what may or
may not happen with a study of governance. We do expect the amendment to-- there to be amendments
to take out the governance provisions, just as the bill sponsors had highlighted last week. Still somewhat
to be determined what the final nature of those amendments will look like. Mr. Davies, if there's anything I
missed from your report, I'm happy to open the floor to you.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair. No, I think that covers it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And thank you, Director Tisdale. OK. Seeing no other discussion, we will
adjourn the meeting. As of 1:25 PM, April 25. I thank you all. Just as a reminder, the Executive Committee
is-- the next Executive Committee, pardon me, is scheduled for Thursday, May 23. The committee's work
plan calls for a discussion on the two year committee appointments, as well as potential bylaw changes
regarding committee appointments. We are also likely to have actions to take on the CAC charter and our
station naming policies. And there may also be some additional pieces that will be coming with respect to
TABOR, so stay tuned, finally, so that we remained aligned with our Board approved GM/CEO
compensation philosophy.
The May Executive Committee may include an executive session that would have a conversation with our
General Manager and CEO. So we have a number of things coming. Stay tuned. I think May will be a busy
executive session. Make sure to please flag that on your calendar. Have that available for some robust
discussion. And with that, thank you, everybody, for being here. Thank you for the patience. Have a
wonderful rest of your day. Take care.

