Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
November 16, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Larry Hoy
Attendee Name
Larry Hoy
Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler
Jeff Walker
Natalie Menten

Title
Chair
First Vice Chair
Second Vice Chair

Status
Present
Present
Present

Secretary
Treasurer

Present
Present

Arrived

Chair Hoy called the Executive Committee to order at 12:00 p.m.

II.

Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 1st Vice Chair Francone, 2nd
Vice-Chair Deadwyler (via phone),
Secretary Walker, Treasurer Menten

Others present:

General Manager Genova (via phone)
Acting Chief Operations Officer and
Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations Bruce Abel, Executive
Manager Barbara McManus, Board
Office Administrator John McKay

November Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Hoy reviewed the Board Meeting agenda and said that it included an updated
recommended action from the General Manager Oversight and Performance Review
Committee (GM Oversight). He asked whether that was the only change to the
agenda, and Ms. McManus said yes. He noted the items on the unanimous consent
and recommended action agendas and said that he would assume that no additional

items needed to be moved to recommended actions unless someone said
otherwise.
Director Deadwyler asked how many retirees would be in attendance for the Board
Meeting.
Chair Hoy said there were three retirees on the agenda.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, said it would be prudent to note that the Board Meeting would open
with the consideration of the budget.
Chair Hoy agreed and said the budget was an item for public discussion, meaning
there would be two opportunities for public comment.
Motion:

Chair Hoy made the motion to approve moving
the November 28th Board agenda to the full
Board.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion

III.

The motion passed with 5 in favor and 0
opposed.

Other Matters
Director Francone noted the agenda would show both the GM Oversight update and
the committee’s recommended action.
Director Deadwyler said that the Board had gone into executive session before
when speaking about the General Manager’s performance.
Barbara McManus, Board Office Executive Manager, stated that GM Oversight did
not go into executive session during its last meeting.
Chair Hoy stated the GM Oversight committee members felt an executive session
was not needed, nor was there an executive session scheduled for the Board
Meeting. He said he would find out during the Board Meeting if that was a mistake.
Director Francone said she wanted to have an open and fair discussion and to allow
the General Manager to respond.

Director Deadwyler asked how many Directors attended the previous GM Oversight
committee.
Chair Hoy said seven or eight Directors. He noted that, for the recommended action
regarding the General Manager’s performance evaluation, he would ask Director
Francone to lead the discussion.
Director Francone noted that the Bike Jeffco organization would be in attendance
for the Board Meeting to ask for a review of RTD’s bicycle policy. She said she
anticipated three people would attend from that group. She suggested that an ad
hoc committee be created that could serve in an advisory capacity.
Chair Hoy said he would listen to the request from Bike Jeffco and decide where to
go from there.
Director Francone said that Bike Jeffco’s representatives were reasonable,
passionate about what they were doing, and had good information for staff. She
said it would be helpful to revisit the policy regarding bicycle stowage and the use
of the high blocks.
Chair Hoy suggested that the Bike Jeffco representatives could sit in on an ADA
Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) meeting. She said they might be able to
get a better global look at what it means to be on a high block with wheelchair
users.
Director Francone responded that Bike Jeffco was informed and engaged and had
partnered with the disabled community. She said they realize that persons with
mobility devices or mobility impairment would have first priority in using the high
block. She said she was surprised to learn the number of people with bicycles who
used light rail. She noted that RTD as an agency was pushing first/last mile
solutions and stated that bicycles were one of the ways people solved that issue.
She suggested people might use public transit more if they had better
accommodations.
Chair Hoy noted that he had carried his bike onto a train many times.
Director Deadwyler asked whether the bicycle users intended to use the disabled
areas.

Chair Hoy said that the bicycle users’ rights were to subordinate to those of
persons with disabilities.
Director Deadwyler said she could foresee bikes overloading the trains.
Director Menten asked whether the video showing the adjusted seating
arrangement of the train cars, which would allow people to understand how much
room mobility devices require, had been posted on the RTD website.
Mr. Abel said he would check.
Director Deadwyler said that the agency would receive pushback.
Mr. Abel said that what the stakeholders were asking was for a review of bicycle
policy and to be able to participate, which would not be resolved immediately.
Directors Francone and Deadwyler requested a copy of the bicycle policy, and Ms.
McManus responded that she would provide copies.
General Manager Genova reminded the committee that a recent settlement was the
reason for the train car reconfiguration, which needed to be taken into
consideration.
Director Francone said they were aware of the lawsuit and ADA priority and the
implications of sharing that area. She said the Bike Jeffco representatives were
reasonable and were looking to have a discussion about whether more bikes could
be safely accommodated on light rail, rather than asking for additional train cars
exclusively for bicycles.
Mr. Abel said that Bike Jeffco’s participation would allow them to be involved in
the conversation and to understand perspectives but noted that the settlement
would be the guiding force.
Director Walker said that he rode light rail frequently and noted that bicycles, if
placed in the middle of a train car, could easily trap people trying to escape in an
emergency. He said the reason for the lawsuit was that RTD could not
accommodate everyone.
Chair Hoy said that bicycle users should know that they could have to wait if the
train ran out of space.

Director Menten said she was not aware of a separate bicycle policy and stated
that the code of conduct contained relevant provisions.
Mr. Abel noted that the agency issued brochures regarding the use of light rail and
other guidelines for bicycle riders.
Director Menten said she wanted to revisit the topic of the GM Oversight
committee. She said that previous practice had been to move into executive
session, where the General Manager was not present. She asked for clarification
that, during the Board Meeting, the Board would have an open discussion regarding
the General Manager.
Chair Hoy stated the Board would proceed in that manner barring objections. He
said the GM Oversight meetings had been open to the public.
Director Francone said her preference was to keep the Board Meeting open and not
to go into executive session unless doing so was necessary. She said Directors
should say what they needed to say.
Director Deadwyler stated that some Directors may not want to voice their opinions
in a public forum. She said the committee should expect surprises.
Chair Hoy noted that what was said during the GM Oversight committee was public
record and said he did not see a difference between Directors speaking at the
committee meeting and the Board Meeting. He asked whether Director Deadwyler
felt the Board should go into executive session.
Director Deadwyler said she did not think the Board should change policy.
Chair Hoy said he did not think the Board was changing policy.
Director Deadwyler said the Board previously went into executive session without
the presence of the General Manager.
Chair Hoy said that the committee directly discussed its findings with the General
Manager and asked for the General Manager’s thoughts.
General Manager Genova said that, as he and the GM Oversight committee had
discussed, he was agreeable to not having an executive session.

Chair Hoy said he had gotten the sense that the executive session was not
necessary.
Director Deadwyler said she felt it inappropriate to consult the General Manager
regarding whether to go into executive session.
Director Walker stated that the Board would not be strategizing or negotiating. He
asked which statutory citation the Board had used the previous year to validate the
use of an executive session.
Ms. McManus responded that the provision regarding personnel matters was used.
Director Walker said the Directors were all public officials who should say what
they have to say.
Chair Hoy said it was clear that a majority of the Executive Committee members
were opposed to moving into executive session.
Director Menten asked whether the video recordings of the previous two GM
Oversight meetings were on the website, and Ms. McManus said they were not.
Director Menten then asked whether the Board could provide the audio recordings if
someone requested them, and Ms. McManus said that would be possible.
Chair Hoy spoke about open houses and telephone town halls. He said the Public
Information (PI) team had begun scheduling open houses and telephone town halls
beginning the following week and running through December 2017. He said that,
when the available dates, personal schedules, and human resources were
considered, along with the fact that the telephone town halls had not been fully
procured at that time, he made the decision that the Directors would hold telephone
town halls in March 2018. He further stated that the district open houses, as
envisioned by the PI team, would be held at the discretion and convenience of each
Director. He stated that staff would be approaching the Directors to discuss the
preferred dates and locations. He asked whether the Directors were in agreement
with him on his decision.
Director Francone asked whether this meant that the PI team would inform the
Directors of their participation more than two days prior to the date of the event.
Ms. McManus said that she was working with the PI team on timing and said that
the timing of Director Francone’s open house had been a topic of discussion.

Chair Hoy said the issue had been brewing for a while stated that staff would work
with the Directors individually to meet their needs.
Director Deadwyler said she had wanted to do away with town halls when staff
had dictated the timing, but she stated she was willing to participate as long as she
could pick the dates.
Ms. McManus said that outreach meetings would be scheduled in the same
manner. She noted that the telephone town halls would take place over a two-week
period in March 2018.
Chair Hoy said the telephone town halls would be held mostly in the same way
they had been done in the past. He said that he the PI team would send an email to
all Directors with available time slots that would be filled on a first-come, first
served basis. He said the technological constraints were the reason for this format.
Director Walker said that his open house had already been scheduled and the
scheduling had been done much in the same way that Chair Hoy had described it.
Chair Hoy said that the PI team had previously attempted to compress 20 meetings
into a two-to-three-week period, but the problem was that there were not enough
time slots. As for the open houses, he said that the Directors would have latitude in
how they could work with the PI team in order to tailor the presentation to each
district. He said that Ms. McManus would help facilitate the outreach process with
the PI team. He stated that each Director would be responsible for preparing for
their events and inviting constituents and that the PI team would collaborate with
the Directors to identify pertinent district issues and construct meetings that would
benefit RTD and its constituents.
Ms. McManus added that she was working with the PI team to schedule walking
tours for each district starting in the spring of 2018. She said that the Chair had
decided that spreading out the three types of outreach meetings over a longer
timeline would be more communicative to constituents than doing everything all at
once.
Director Menten said she was glad to have in-person town halls and had not been
an advocate of telephone town halls. She said that she did not expect staff to help
with the town halls but noted she did require assistance with the technological
aspects of her recent meeting. She asked whether Roger Sherman of CRL
Associates would facilitate the telephone town halls as part of his contract.

Ms. McManus said that the telephone town halls were not in Mr. Sherman’s
contract at that time. She said Mr. Sherman would have facilitated the town halls
through a different contract if they had been held in 2017, but she noted that the
facilitation contract would need to go out for bid in 2018.
Chair Hoy said he enjoyed working with Mr. Sherman because of his knowledge of
the agency and that the town halls had not gone as well when a different vendor
was used.
Director Menten asked whether the mobile labs were tied to the walking tours.
Ms. McManus said they were separate functions. She said some of the mobile labs
would take place on the same date as the open houses. She noted that the open
houses and community engagement meetings for Districts I and N were scheduled
back to back, which she said was a lot for a single day, but she stated that the
structure would be revisited.
Director Francone said that the PI team had done a great job working with her to
creating the type of event she had envisioned. She stated that a walking tour did
not make sense in her district.
Ms. McManus asked whether Director Francone wanted her community
engagement event scheduled for December 13, 2017, and whether she wanted the
open house to be scheduled for a future date.
Director Francone said she would be fine with holding both on the same day but
said she was struggling with the concept of the walking tour.
Ms. McManus said the structure of the walking tours was still undecided. She said
she had a cursory discussion with Nate Currey, Senior Manager of Public Relations
and Public Information, about the plans for the walking tours, and she said Mr.
Currey had engaged in similar efforts in Utah. She noted that walking tours were
more feasible in certain districts than others and said that the events should be
inclusive.
Director Deadwyler said that Stapleton was the only neighborhood in her district
suitable for a walking tour.
Chair Hoy said that any and all outreach was important and that Directors should
be involved with guiding the PI team in their districts. He said that Directors would

have discretion to decide whether or not to hold walking tours and how they would
be structured.
Director Walker reiterated that all of the outreach events were discretionary and
that Directors were not obligated to do anything, though he recommended against
nonparticipation. He said that the Directors could shape their events to be
representative of their districts and that the PI team is interested in Directors’ input
on how to structure the events.
Director Menten said she preferred face-to-face interaction with her constituents
rather than telephone town halls and preferred speaking to constituents rather than
groups of elected officials or other high-level government representatives from her
district.
Ms. McManus said that the PI team would work with each Director to select the
appropriate audience for the events.
Director Menten said that she felt that she was now in control of her events,
whereas previously she had been handed a script.
Chair Hoy noted that the PI team could still want certain questions asked
consistently across all districts.
General Manager Genova said he would further discuss plans with the PI team the
following week.
Director Walker stated that he was in favor of telephone town halls because not all
of his constituents were able to attend meetings.
Director Deadwyler said that she would like to be able to take more calls during
telephone town halls because a lot of callers were unable to participate.
Director Menten noted that the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) waiver
contained some conditional terms. She said the Directors were told that compliance
with those term would not be too difficult and asked about the status of that
compliance.
General Manager Genova said that the waiver conditions were in relation to atgrade crossing timing, specifically the infrequent occasions when the conventional
activation system triggered the gates. He said that positive train control (PTC)
accounted for up to 98% of activations. He noted that the FRA had observed the

gate timing that week and said the agency would know more following a debriefing
on the FRA’s observations.
Director Menten asked whether she could expect an update the following week.
General Manager Genova said he was hopeful staff could present an update the
following week.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 12:57 p.m.

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - November 28, 2017
II.

Pledge of Allegiance

A.

2018 Recommended Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2017 for the adoption of the 2018 Budget,
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2017 for the 2018 Budget Appropriation and Resolution No.
___, Series of 2017 for the appropriation of 2018 Previously Appropriated Capital.
The 2018 Recommended Budget includes the following summary of operating and nonoperating revenue, and operating expenses, debt and reserves, capital expenditures, and
fund balances. The attached Fiscal Year 2018 Recommended Budget and Fiscal Year
2018 Recommended Budget-Fund Balance (Exhibit I) provide the supporting detail for the
Base System, FasTracks Project (Construction) and FasTracks Operations.
The 2018 Recommended Budget includes projected operating and non-operating revenue
below (in thousands) which are estimated, not appropriated. The following amounts are
summarized from relevant data in Exhibit I.

FASTRACKS PROJECT (0.4%)
Farebox Revenue

2017 Amended
Budget
$000s
$

2018 Recommended
Budget
$000s
-

Other Operating Revenue

$

-

Change
$

-

-

-

Sales/Use Tax

166,000

175,980

9,980

Grant Revenue

276,924

267,487

(9,437)

Investment Income

2,877

5,440

2,563

Other Income

8,221

8,821

600

FasTracks Project Revenue

$

FASTRACKS OPERATIONS

2017 Amended
Budget
$000s

2018 Recommended
Budget
$000s

$

$

Farebox Revenue
Other Operating Revenue
Sales/Use Tax

454,022

28,270

$

457,728

31,562

-

$

3,706

Change
$

3,292

1,082
68,421

587
74,490

(495)
6,069

Grant Revenue

-

-

-

Investment Income

-

-

-

1,000

1,000

-

Other Income
FasTracks Operations Revenue

$

98,773

$

107,639

$

8,866

Total FasTracks Revenue

$

552,795

$

565,367

$

12,572

DISTRICT-WIDE
Farebox Revenue

2017 Amended
Budget
$000s

2018 Recommended
Budget
$000s

$

$

142,500

Other Operating Revenue

146,785

Change
$

4,285

6,023

5,666

(357)

Sales/Use Tax

586,053

626,175

40,122

Grant Revenue

427,322

414,448

(12,874)

4,197

7,278

3,081

Investment Income
Other Income

12,413

District-Wide Revenue

$

1,178,508

13,077
$

1,213,430

664
$

34,922

The 2018 Recommended Budget appropriation includes projected operating expenses, debt
and reserves, capital expenditures, and fund balances below (in thousands). The following
amounts are summarized from relevant data in Exhibit I.

Operating Expenses, Debt Service, Capital Expenditures, Fund Balances
2017 Amended
Budget
$000s

BASE SYSTEM (0.6%)
Operating Expense

$

Interest Expense

2018 Recommended
Budget
$000s

494,462

$

23,217

520,426

Change
$

25,964

21,784

(1,433)

Capitalized Interest

2,739

-

(2,739)

New Capital

67,517

58,921

(8,596)

Debt Payments

49,982

59,020

9,038

-

-

-

FasTracks Internal Savings Account
Contingency Reserve

-

5,000

5,000

Board Appropriated Fund

17,400

20,400

3,000

Capital Replacement Fund

2,700

-

(2,700)

Unrestricted Operating Reserve

9,700

14,700

5,000

Unrestricted Fund

9,995

31,382

21,387

Base System (0.6%) Appropriation

$

677,712

$

731,633

$

53,921

Base System Previously Approved Capital

$

130,234

$

104,826

$

(25,408)

Total Base System Appropriation

$

807,946

$

836,459

$

28,513

2017 Amended
Budget
$000s

FASTRACKS PROJECT (0.4%)
Operating Expense

$

2018 Recommended
Budget
$000s

68,786

$

49,284

Change
$

(19,502)

Interest Expense

132,274

131,464

(810)

Capitalized Interest

30,242

21,400

(8,842)

New Capital

234,795

128,876

(105,919)

Debt Payments

8,083

5,680

(2,403)

FasTracks Management Reserve

15,890

15,890

-

FasTracks Internal Savings Account

40,614

71,520

30,906

Board Appropriated Fund

5,732

4,107

(1,625)

Capital Replacement Fund

5,732

4,107

(1,625)

Unrestricted Fund

5,732

4,107

(1,625)

FasTracks Project (0.4%) Appropriation

$

547,880

$

436,435

$

(111,445)

FasTracks Project Previously Approved Capital

$

590,312

$

638,722

$

48,410

Total FasTracks Project Appropriation

$

1,138,192

$

1,075,157

$

(63,035)

2017 Amended
Budget
$000s

FASTRACKS OPERATIONS
Operating Expense

$

2018 Recommended
Budget
$000s

98,719

$

105,857

Change
$

7,138

Interest Expense
Capitalized Interest

-

-

-

New Capital

-

-

-

Debt Payments

-

-

-

Board Appropriated Fund

8,227

8,821

594

Capital Replacement Fund

8,227

8,821

594

Unrestricted Fund

8,227

8,821

594

FasTracks Operations Appropriation

$

123,400

$

132,320

$

8,920

FasTracks Operations Previously Approved Cap.

$

-

$

-

Total FasTracks Operations Appropriation

$

123,400

$

132,320

$

8,920

Total FasTracks Appropriation

$

1,261,592

$

1,207,477

$

(54,115)

-

2017 Amended
Budget
$000s

DISTRICT-WIDE
Operating Expense

$

2018 Recommended
Budget
$000s

661,967

$

675,567

Change
$

13,600

Interest Expense

155,491

153,248

(2,243)

Capitalized Interest

32,981

21,400

(11,581)

New Capital

302,312

187,797

(114,515)

Debt Payments

58,065

64,700

6,635

FasTracks Management Reserve

15,890

15,890

-

FasTracks Internal Savings Account

40,614

71,520

30,906

-

5,000

5,000

Board Appropriated Fund

31,359

33,328

1,969

Capital Replacement Fund

16,659

12,928

(3,731)

Unrestricted Operating Reserve

9,700

14,700

5,000

Unrestricted Fund

23,954

44,310

20,356

Contingency Reserve

District-Wide Appropriation

$

1,348,992

$

1,300,388

$

(48,604)

District-Wide Previously Approved Capital

$

720,546

$

743,548

$

23,002

Total District-Wide Appropriation

$

2,069,538

$

2,043,936

$

(25,602)

XII.

Unanimous Consent

B.
Approval of 2018 Contract Amendment to Kumar and Associates, Inc. for the
Construction Materials Testing and Inspection Services Contract
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the 2018 Contract
Amendment for Kumar and Associates and increase the contract Not-to-Exceed amount by
$1,000,000. This will result in a new Not-to-Exceed contract amount of $6,000,000 for
Construction Materials Testing and Inspection Services.
It is further recommended that the Contract end date be extended from December 31,
2018 until December 31, 2019 to complete work on the North Metro and SERE projects.
Funds for the amendment are contained in the 2018 Recommended Budget for the specific
projects for which Kumar’s services are utilized.
C.

Longmont Fare Buy Up

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City of Longmont to buy up fares on all four
of the Longmont local fixed route services herein referenced as “the 300 series.”

Specifically the 300 series are routes 323, 324, 326 and 327 and complementary Accessa-Ride services for a period of two years.
D.

2018 Fiscal Policy Statement

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves and adopts the revised Fiscal Policy Statement for 2018.
E.

2018 Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.

XIII.

Recommended Action

F.

Federal Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into an agreement for
Federal Liaison Services with Squire Patton Boggs LLP for a one-year option at a cost of
$270,000 (January 1 through December 31, 2018). This action represents the fourth
year of a five-year contract. Funding for this contract is included in the annual budget.
G.

Approval of General Manager's 2017 Performance Evaluation

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the General Manager’s performance
appraisal for 2017 as defined in the attached completed General Manager’s Performance
Evaluation Packet.
The General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee is pleased to report they are in agreement with General Manager Genova’s selfassessments and feel he has achieved or exceeded his overall goals for the 2017
Performance Appraisal. Although it has been a challenging year, the General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management Committee recognizes that General Manager
Genova has met the “Exceeds Expectations” for all of the Core Goals and one of the Task
Goals and “Achieved Expectations” for the remaining Task Goals set forth for performance
in 2017. Based on the consistent and outstanding performance in leading the RTD and the
overall compensation philosophy is to hire and maintain top talent in keeping with the
industry compensation of transit leadership peers we feel General Manager Genova has
earned a discretionary performance payment of $11,400.00. This is an increase of 4%
over last year.
H.

TMD Contract Amendment

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee to approve an amendment to the
Transportation Management & Design, Inc. (TMD) Contract 14DO009, awarded in March
2015, to exercise the two remaining one-year option periods thereby extending the
Contract period of performance to December 31, 2019 and to increase the contract
amount by $650,000 from $500,000 to a new Not to Exceed (NTE) total of $1,150,000.
I.

Free Rides for Members of the Military

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides on
RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the
presently approved date of December 31, 2017 to December 31, 2018. Utilization has
been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.

XVII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

