2020-06-09
RTD Operations & Customer Service
KATE WILLIAMS: Ladies and gentlemen, I have 8:47 on my clock. So I'm going to call this
meeting to order. OK. This is Kate Williams and this is the Operations and Customer Service
Committee Meeting for June 9, 2020. I'm calling this committee meeting to order. We are
convened as of 8:47 PM. And I ask that everyone connected to this call mute your phones and set
your ringers to silent. We'll try and minimize any interference. We have one-- before we get to the
recommended actions, there is one on the agenda tonight.
But before we go there, I'd like to speak to the situation that we've had over the past 10 days now.
And I would like to commend the RTD Operations Department for the work that they did
throughout the protests that we've had. I think that they did an exemplary job. There are other
agencies throughout the country who suspended service completely. We did not do that.
We did a relatively good job of getting people as close as we could get to the center of town without
harming any of our riders or any of our employees or any of our equipment. And if Michael Ford
is on this call, I'm wondering if he wants to speak to that at all.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford COO. Thank you very much. I just wanted to reemphasize what you said. I just wanted to acknowledge a lot of the time and effort that folks put
into ensuring the safety of our passengers, our operators, and our equipment. And just wanting to
commit them for a lot of work that they had to do over the last several weeks. Our supervisors,
security, operations staff, rail staff, our communications folks, everybody really pitched in. And
I'm just really proud of the effort that we took to address the needs of our community while dealing
with a lot of other things that were going on at the time. So, thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. And thank all of the employees of RTD for the work
that they did during what has been an unusual situation. OK, we're going to our first recommended
action of the evening, which is, I'll read the recommended action, the award of group 30 contracted
fixed route services. It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorized the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract with
First Transit for the provision of contracted group 30 fixed route transit service.
This contract is for three years with two one year options for a total of five years. The initial three
year contract amount for service is $50,694,345. The option year one amount is $18,203,287, and
the option year two amount is $18,886,381. The total five year not to exceed amount for services
is $87,784,013.
In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractors direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be
$4,882,393 for the initial three year contract term, $1,710,599 for option year one and $1,745,170
for option year two. The total five year not to exceed amount for fuel is $8,338,162. The total five
year not to exceed amount for the contracted six route transit service and fuel is $96,122,176.

This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals, core goal number one,
which is successful delivery of transit services and core goal number three, which is strong
financial management. Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll second. This is Guissinger.
KATE WILLIAMS: And who was the mover?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chair Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. OK. We have a number of attachments related to this and
we have some staff. Mr. Ford, do you have any of your staff who want to speak to this?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, this is Michael Ford, COO. I believe Greg Smith was going to speak to
this. Or perhaps Fred Worthen
KATE WILLIAMS: Why don't you guys stand by for one second?
GREG SMITH: I got bitten by the mute.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's OK. Hang out one second, if you have anything that you need to add to
what was presented to the directors in the pocket, we're happy to have that. If you don't have
anything to add then I'm going to go around right away and ask if there are questions. So, do you
have anything to add, sir?
GREG SMITH: Sure this is Greg Smith, Deputy AGM of Bus Operations. I'll keep this high level.
In light of all of the conversation surrounding our financial challenges, when we started this
procurement and it's part of every fixed route procurement, we'd build an estimate on what we can
expect as RTD to pay for these fixed route contracted services.
And during this procurement, we received three bids, three proposals, one from First Transit, one
from the Transdev, and one from National Express Transit. And so, when we reviewed the
proposals, we reviewed them for obviously their technical capacity and whether they qualify, but
also we reviewed their cost proposals. And when we reviewed National Express Transit, their cost
proposal came in $13 million more than what we expected to pay for the service. So at that point,
we no longer considered them a viable candidate.
Next we had Transdev. They came in at $3.5 million more than we expected to pay for the services.
So combine that with some of the responses on the technical side of it, we no longer considered
Transdev. So then we went into negotiations with First Transit. And I'm happy to report that First
Transit is definitely willing to assist RTD in trying to remedy some of the financial challenges.
And as part of that negotiation they committed to reducing their profit margin from 3.7% down to
2.39%, which resulted in approximately $1.5 million in savings, which is actually $1.5 million less

than what we expected to pay to the contracted service. So in short, we negotiated a reduction in
their cost. It came directly out of their profit and did not impact the operators and mechanics or
the cost of the business in that service package. I'm happy to answer any questions any of the board
members have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Smith. I'll go around to the directors. If you have any
questions, please bring them now. And if you don't, say so. Thank you so much. Let's go
alphabetical this time. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Just a couple of questions. I guess, can we afford it? Can we
afford this contract? And then secondly, what do we have to do in say, year two, if we have to
reduce our services system wide and say, we have to cut back 10% or 15% of the routes that this
particular contract provides?
GREG SMITH: This is Greg Smith, Deputy AGM of Bus Operations. I will certainly defer to
Heather for the long term budget, but in terms of reductions or changes in service levels, we do
have language written into all of our contracts that allow for renegotiations. What we are asking
for from the Board tonight is the not to exceed amount. So I hope that answers your question.
COLE BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Cole Ballard, General Manager.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Ballard, go ahead.
COLE BALLARD: Yes, Brian Iacono is on the call tonight and he can answer specific questions.
But I do know for a fact that all of these contracts have cancellations for convenience. And we
would have to negotiate any termination expenses. But all of these contracts that we do have
termination for convenience. And if Brian has anything else to add to that, I'll asked him to speak
up.
BRIAN IACONO: Madam Chair, if I may this is Brian Iacono.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening, Brian. Speak to us.
BRIAN IACONO: Yes in addition, in addition to what Mr. Ballard and Mr. Smith said, we do
have provisions in the contract for both termination for convenience and default. We also have
provisions again when the service levels are adjusted that we can do that within the parameters of
the contract when it goes over a certain limit. And it's subject to renegotiation.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you. That answers my question.
COLE BALLARD: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Iacono. Thank you, Mr. Ballard and Director Broom.
Somebody has loud background noise. There we go. That sounds better. Thanks. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, Madam Chair. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I was going to ask the same thing that Director
Broom asked. But I have another question. And that is that we currently have a-- we're well above
the minimum 50% of the district vehicular service that is the minimum. And we're bumping up at
56%. And in the event that we have to decrease service across the district, am I assuming that that
would be kind of proportional between the private sector and the RTD provided service?
For in the event that it provided an imbalance in that percentage and the 56% went up to the
maximum of 58%, do we have provisions in the contract to adjust that? I don't know if I made
myself clear. But I just am concerned about the fact that we're taking some pretty significant budget
cuts and wanted to make sure that we have the ability and the flexibility to adjust those contracts
accordingly.
FRED WORTHEN: This is Fred Worthen, AG of Bus Operations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Worthen, go ahead.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes so we have the ability to determine how service is distributed across the
border through our service planning process. So we can determine how many hours are operated
by what contractor. The law doesn't have a minimum specification. It only has a maximum
specification. I believe it's 58% that we can't exceed.
And every time we do a service change, we look at that through the service planning process. We
want to make sure that we're balancing our services and two, that we're not exceeding those
percentages. But we have the right to determine who operates what and to what level.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Just as a follow up, for some reason I thought that it
had changed. I read in the audit that we did have a floor, minimum of 50% and a maximum of
58%. But that that aside, I'm glad you have the flexibility. And I also wanted to comment that I'm
really pleased that they came to the table and were agreeing to reduce their profit margin, a pretty
slim one I might add in order to help us out with our budget woes. So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. Two questions, Brian Iacono, what likely is entailed in a cancellation for
convenience in terms of the termination cost? What are we looking at there? How big are those?
BRIAN IACONO: Madam Chair, this is Brian Iacono, Senior Manager of Materials Management,
may I?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, please. Absolutely, sir.
BRIAN IACONO: Director Cook, that's a very good question. And to be honest with you, it's a
very complicated answer. So it would be a series of negotiations. We'd have to look at cost, the

contractors usually you know, have their documentation and we'll have to review that. But it's a
negotiation of what costs have been incurred and usually some sort of profit as well.
So it would be a negotiated process to take care of the cost situation when we get out of a contract
via termination for convenience.
SHELLEY COOK: And would depend too on how early you're terminating it. So that's my second
question. I don't know who best answers this. But you know, looking at the amounts involved and
the fluidity of our situation and the idea we just expressed of asking good questions, are we
needlessly constraining our ability to do things differently here? Should we look at a two year
contract versus three? So just if you have any thinking about that, I'm just wondering whether we
ought to make it a shorter time period.
BRIAN IACONO: Madam Chairman, this is Brian Iacono again. Go ahead, Brian. I would say
again the three year term is something that we've considered for a long time and works
operationally. I would defer more to again Fred or Mr. Smith regarding the term. But in the past it
certainly has seemed to work for us.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, Fred, go ahead.
FRED WORTHEN: So one of the things that we are looking at through the Reimagine process as
how we operate our services as a whole, including how we use our contractors themselves. We
have a lot of challenges with our contract operations, the largest one being that we do not own any
of the facilities that our contractors are physically operating out of. So we would have to really
look hard at how we could do these services differently and more creatively. And that is part of
the task, the Reimagine RTD process that we've been working on.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you. You finished, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you, Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, Mr. Iacono, I would be very interested in
knowing what those numbers are that Director Cook asked about for the cancellation or even
default. You know, I mean, maybe we could get by this year and maybe we'd get by next year, but
you know, in your three and option four and five, it doesn't look good at all. And we might be the
ones defaulting and then you know make our situation ever worse.
Remember this. When we gave our own represented employees a raise, we also gave our
contractors a raise. And everybody in the country, every local, state, federal body is taking a cut,
at least 20, 25%. And so, I'm going to say no on this contract for a couple of reasons.

We also give them the bus too, don't we? We give them the bus. We give them the gas. And then
they charge us you know, all this. And they are for profit. I get that. But you know, there are local
businesses that are out of business now because they were closed down. And I'm assuming that
they're pretty darn lucky to stay in business and have anything to do.
And that's not going to be unique for us. And by the way these companies are billion dollar
companies. So while they may have a slim profit margin, they've got a big bank. And it ought to
be able to tide them over. So I don't want to be in a long term contract with them because we won't
be able to fulfill it based on the numbers we just saw tonight. But I also would like to see them
give us some goodwill.
And you know, I don't want to tell you how to negotiate, but I'm going to be a no on this contract.
I think that we could do better. Or as you were mentioning, you're reimagining everything right
now. So you know in six months or 18 months you may have a whole new game plan, and then
we cancel a contract and it's millions of dollars to get out of that. So, I would hope to see a better
contract, and not just from them, but for everybody we have a contract with.
And we, our staff, our administration, everybody is looking at taking these reductions. The citizens
are getting the reduced service and so on and so forth. So, I think they have to be part of the mix
too. They can't just go through this unscathed. I don't think it's fair to anybody.
So when you look at the budget and what's getting cut, that same percentage should apply to our
contractors, if we even keep the contracts. And I do agree with Rivera-Malpiede. We need to have
Heather a high view. And I know it's in the document, but maybe you'll do it in a way that is better
for at least me to consume, but you know, all of our contracts, no matter who they are, and if they're
not giving us money, we need to rethink things. All right. That's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I appreciate Director Folska's comments. Thanks to the team.
I just wanted to follow up on Director Catlin's question. If we do start cutting service, does the
58% max support 56, potentially help define where we're cutting service? That we'd have to cut
out some of the contractor services or do we just move them to other places? Or how does that
work?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, Fred Worthen, AGM Bus Operation. Yes, we do redistribute services
frequently among garages. Sometimes it's based upon capacity, vehicles that can support service,
and things like that. So we do balance services around on a regular basis themselves. So the other
thing I would like to [AUDIO OUT], these hours that we have in here were rejected based on preCOVID That is correct.
We're not obligated to actually operate in pay for reduced service level hours. We have the right
to adjust services. Typically our contracts have-- the contractor has the ability to request to
renegotiate contract if there's more than a 20% annual service obligation or 20% variation in annual
service hours. However RTD isn't obligated to renegotiate those contracts. It's just that a trigger is
where the contractor could ask for a renegotiation.

LYNN GUISSINGER: So that's helpful. Are you're saying if there's a 20%-- we've got this not to
exceed. If we drop more than 20% below, then we trigger a renegotiation potential?
FRED WORTHEN: Well they can request it. But we're not obligated. Underneath the more current
contracts they physically state that the 20%, the contractor can request renegotiations. But again
we're not obligated to actually renegotiate the contracts. We determine the service level and hours
that they operate.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. That's all I have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I had a question similar to Director Broom's, both
of Director Broom's question. The first one was can we afford this and the second question about
the flexibility within the contract. And I did hear the answer to the second question, but I did not
hear the answer to the first question around affordability.
FRED WORTHEN: So, I have to pull up the exact cost savings, but part of the process that we go
through when we look at contracts like this as we look at what we would expect with our contract.
But then there is also an internal cost estimate that is done with regard to what it would cost RTD
to operate it. And I'm looking for the exact dollar amount right now.
Greg, if you have it, you can tell me. But it would cost RTD several million dollars more to operate
comparable services. And again, one of the big contributing factors for us having an increased cost
is that we do not operate bases and we don't have the capacity to take on this level of service in
our existing bases, even with the reduction [AUDIO OUT].
SHONTEL LEWIS: You kind of cut out at the end. You said you don't have the what?
FRED WORTHEN: We don't have the capacity at other bases to be able to transfer a great deal of
additional service to them. For example, Platt where even though we're running we have been
running lower service levels, with the service we adjusted on the 15, we are really running at about
capacity there. I'm sorry, I said Platt, I meant East Metro Platt and we resume Mall operations we
will be close to capacity, or do we have very little capacity.
So we don't have a lot of opportunities to transfer these services among operating bases. So we
would have to find an alternative base to operate a contract out of.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK. One of the things that stuck out to me. I appreciate you answering
that question. One of the things that sticks out to me is the flexibility around this contract,
particularly as at the beginning of our conversation in the first committee and now in this, we've
talked about how unpredictable and how uncertain our future is. And I know we've always done
these three year contracts. But I am quite interested in what it could look like to execute that
differently in the face of uncertainty and reimagining what our system could look like.

And even thinking about the sustainability of our contractors that do-- is there an opportunity for
us to lease our buses for $1 to our contractors, right, to be able to keep things in operation. And
I'm just thinking out loud. But I am in alignment with a lot of directors around like the uncertainty
of our RTD how do we reimagine this in a way that is sustainable. But that's it. Thank you so
much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. You know, I have mixed feelings about this. It's a contract involving
Longmont and other areas in my area. And I know it's incredibly important. On the other hand, I
feel like we have just been given this incredibly sobering budget, a mid-term budget that shows
that we're taking a huge financial hit for a long period of time. And yet here we have this contract
which is for a very large amount of money and for a significant amount of time.
And it was put out, the RFP was put out even before COVID was a bad gleam in some devil's eye.
And I'm just concerned that we did not, and we couldn't because we're not used to it yet, have
thought of all the ways to protect ourselves from uncertainty that we will think of in the next few
months as we go through this newness. I'm just concerned, even though the contract seems like it
was well negotiated, but that we just don't even know.
We don't even know the better items to put it our contracts that we'll find out by doing it in the
next few months and years actually. So I have mixed feelings, but I'm leaning no on this. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Let's see, who's next, Director Menten
NATALIE MENTEN: No comment, no question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. We have no Mihalik, so we go to Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Initially, I didn't have any questions until
I heard the comment from staff that the facility issue is we don't have any facilities from which to
operate this. I am curious because I noted in the staff report as to each of the three proposers or
respondents to the RFP that the facility is located at 811 South Sherman Street Unit D, Longmont.
And I just assumed when I read that all three had the exact same address that that was because we
owned the facility and they operated out of that. Can you help me understand what I see as a point
of confusion at least in my mind?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, sir. Fred Worthen AGM of Bus Operations. All the Longmont property
is actually a leased property. It's privately owned at least to First Transit Longmont. All three
vendors contacted the property owner and discussed the leasing options for that particular property.
RTD does not own that property.
DOUG TISDALE: I understand. OK. So whichever one were to get the contract, they would in
fact operate out of that facility. Thank you. That clarifies that. I understand all of the concerns that

have been raised by the other directors. But I submit that we need to provide these services and we
have to find a way to pay for them, obviously.
But this appears to be a good contract that has been appropriately presented by First Transit. And
so I would be in favor of the approval of the contract. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. That's
all that I have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I agree. We have to provide the service. It's less expensive to go with
this contract than to do it ourselves. So I don't know what the options are, and I don't know what
options I would agree to. Because we have to provide the service. We can't leave our customers,
our stakeholders up there in the lurch. So I'll be supporting this contract or the recommendation to
enter into a contract.
And it looks like there is flexibility in the contract in case circumstances change, which they are
certainly bound to do at some point. The five year total doesn't bother me. It provides some
certainty, usually the shorter the term, the more expensive the contract. So I'm good with it as
presented. That's it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I support this contract. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I support this contract.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. And then me. I want to point out and in light of some of
the conversation that we had, that the contractor does in fact hire local people. And so a lot of the
service, regardless of the fact that it is a multinational corporation is still using local people to
provide this service. So I will be in support of it too. And I guess that since we've gone all the way
around, I will now call on everybody and we'll take a vote. And let's do this alphabetically again
to make it simple.
So Director Broom, how do you vote? Oh, I don't have to call everybody. Let's just go the 's instead.
That seems to be faster. If there is anybody who wants to vote no, I believe I heard Director Folska
said no. Is that correct?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, that's correct, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome, ma'am. Anybody else who wants to vote against this?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, Lubow.

KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow. Anyone else? OK. I'll take that as this passes with, let me
count two no's who would be Director Folska and Director Lubow. And that would be 12 yeses
and this passes out of committee. Thank you, everybody for that.
We're now going to go to updates. And we have a variety of updates. And I want to point out that
all of the information on all of these updates was provided to everyone, the public as well as the
directors on Thursday afternoon. We've had some time to review it.
So we're going to try and move through these at a relatively decent clip. I'll ask for questions. And
if you don't have any, you don't have to say that you don't. You can just not say anything and if
you have a question, please I'll bring it up and we'll talk about it. The first update we have is the
first quarter 2020 [AUDIO OUT]
OK, that was music courtesy of unknown, just to brighten up our meeting a little bit. Let's see if
we can avoid that in the future. So, if there is any staff member who wants to add anything to the
information that was provided on the update, please speak now or forever hold your peace. OK. I
hear nobody there, any directors who have questions?
OK. I think that that was a well done presentation that we don't need to add to it and nobody has
any questions.
The second update we have tonight is on the Uber pilot. And I would like to point out that we have
two pilots upcoming here. We have a flex ride pilot and we have an Uber pilot, and both of those
are innovative projects that we are looking at as we try to become more nimble. So I'm going to
see if some of the staff wants to speak to the Uber pilot update first.
PAUL HAMILTON: Yes, this is Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager of Paratransit Services.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Paul. You have the floor.
PAUL HAMILTON: Thank you, Madam Chair. What I wanted to let everyone know and certainly
as you said, everybody has received the packet which shows the update. We had provided a
previous update when we first started speaking with Uber last year, and then again this winter. We
are now at a point where we're ready to finalize what the pilot would look like and looking to
deploy it this fall, August the 1st.
Obviously, one of the biggest things we'd like to do is to take what we currently do with excessive
cab services a step further. And that's being able to provide on demand service solutions for our
Access A Ride customers when they desire to have an on demand solution, and do so in a way that
costs us less money. And in this case, provide service that seeks to trim off our peak demand. In
other words, we are looking to contract services with them in an agreement only during our peak
travel periods when it costs us the most to provide that service.
That said, even if we were providing it during off peak, we're looking at a subsidy at somewhere
around $20 per trip, whereas our subsidy now is well over $50. Actually during COVID 19 with
our service demand reduction, it's far more than that.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much for that statement. And I think this is great. I'll run
through the directors really quickly to see if anybody has questions. Ladies and gentlemen.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I have a question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Paul, what kind of vehicles are you going to be using?
PAUL HAMILTON: Initially, when the pilot would begin, we would be using an Uber vehicle
that would be the general public vehicles that are drivers that are hired by Uber, trained by Uber,
screened by Uber. Once we start the pilot and make sure that our software on our end is working
properly that's supplied by Uber, we would add in our own vehicles to provide service to people
that use wheelchairs.
That differs remarkably from Access-a-Cab in that while Access-a-Cab program indicates that
they provide services for people that are in wheelchairs, the reality is the response time for people
in wheelchairs in Access-a-Cab program is excessive, anywhere from two to three hours
realistically. And as a result, we have very few people that are in wheelchairs that use our Accessa-Cab program. Just as a comparable, about 28% of all of our riders in Access-a-Ride are in
wheelchairs.
In our Access-a-Cab program, it's closer to 15%. We'd like to be able to give people the exact same
service, the exact same cost, the exact same response time. That's what we hope to achieve before
the end of the pilot. Although we will not start it that way, we would start it with just ambulatory
service and transferable wheelchairs that are foldable until we get the service up and running.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And so, did I hear you say that they would be using our accessorized
vehicles? We would use our accessorized vehicles and their tablets and software to provide
services to anyone that's in a fixed wheelchair. So we would provide that element. But we would
be using it using their platform. So essentially, a small portion of our drivers would act as a Uber
sub-fleet to provide trips for fixed wheelchairs.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And what kind of training are these drivers going to get? Or are they our
drivers already?
PAUL HAMILTON: Our drivers would receive our training. Uber drivers receive their own
separate sensitivity training, again, not unlike our Access-a-Cab program, who provide their own
training to drivers that is not by any stretch as in-depth, for instance as our non dedicated cab
drivers. So there's that similarity. But, they do have their own separate training program.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow. Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis, unless I didn't hear Director Lubow.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry, Director Lewis. Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's OK. So I was lost to a music hold and so, I'm not sure what happened. So
if I missed it and it was already discussed, please forgive me. I had a question. Oh my gosh, about
the two workers that we have and if we had taken this proposal to our two work groups that work
on disability issues and what their thoughts might have been on this expansion and its partnership?
KATE WILLIAMS: You're referring to the APAC committee and the ACP committee I take it?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, gentlemen, somebody want to speak to that?
PAUL HAMILTON: Yes. Again this is Paul Hamilton, Senior Director of Paratransit Services.
We have taken up progress and reported APAC who is the group that we work with. We also have
a liaison that works on our committee, Dr. Gross that reports what goes on between our two
committees between them. So he would have reported what he had heard at APAC when he goes
to ACPD.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. And then the second question I have, and you all probably
talked about this in the beginning. Again, I was lost to a musical hold, I do apologize. Is about the
social distancing and what efforts that we're putting in place to make that possible.
PAUL HAMILTON: In the Uber contracts, you mean?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
PAUL HAMILTON: We haven't discussed any specific social distancing, although Uber
themselves has released numerous ones. I actually ride it occasionally myself, and you can't get in
an Uber vehicle now without wearing a facemask. And the drivers already notify you as a courtesy,
just like they do now, and say what their name is, what the car is, what the license plate is, they
also show that they're wearing a mask.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That would be the expectation.
PAUL HAMILTON: Correct.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK. That's it. Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Anybody else have questions on this innovative
pilot?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so, the way I am looking at the documentation here, it appears
that-- and I'm thinking-- let me be specific because we really have two proposals here. And I'm
speaking to the one that is the Metro Taxi Flex Ride.
KATE WILLIAMS: We haven't come to that one yet, Director Menten. If you want to hang on to
your question, I'll come back to you. I'd like to see if anybody has any other questions on the Uber
pilot, and then we'll go on to the next one, if you're OK with that.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So I do have one question related to the paratransit. What is current
status of, I think it's Uber WAV coming to Denver? Uber WAV is, just for the record, W-A-V,
which is wheelchair accessible vehicles, which is present in some other cities. But as far as I know,
it's not in Denver yet, but was expected to be arriving. So that's mainly for the record. Go ahead,
please.
PAUL HAMILTON: Thank you. And you're absolutely correct. Uber WAV is already in six to
seven cities in the US. We have actually talked to a couple of the cities, especially some of them
that have been doing this far longer than we have, one of them being Boston. Some of the feedback
that we've received initially suggests that while the WAV vehicles are out there, that similarly
through our Access-a-Cab programs, there are never enough to go around, and we end up getting
again far different wait times for wheelchair accessible vehicles or that's what we're hearing than
ambulatory vehicles.
It's one of the reasons we wanted to start in a pilot mode where we have no commitment beyond
the year pilot, and try out our own vehicles and be able to use those as an alternative. Obviously
we wouldn't be paying them anything for the trips that occur on our vehicles, only the ambulatory
vehicles. But we would still be able to provide service that is on demand and has a greater response
time than what we can do with paratransit service booked in advance. I'm not sure if I properly or
fully answered your question there.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. We don't know when they're coming to Denver yet.
PAUL HAMILTON: That is the short of it. We really don't know when they're coming to Denver
full out.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And since we are speaking specifically to the paratransit, LA Metro
was using a pilot-- or is or was, using a pilot program. And I don't know if you're aware of that, it
came in through mass transit mags through our media feed. And I don't know if that was public
just all in general or if that was really about paratransit, but do you know at all anything related to
LA Metro with paratransit and their pilot?

PAUL HAMILTON: I'm not familiar with that particular one. I know LA is a very interesting
animal because they have multiple paratransit service areas. Whereas we have one very large
service area. So it could well be that there is one of the providers there that is attempting to work
with Uber. But I'm not familiar with it.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you. That's all the questions I have on this specific area.
PAUL HAMILTON: Thank you, Director Menten. Anybody else have questions on the Uber pilot
program?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, it's Shelley Cook.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director, go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Paul, I was, like Dr. Lewis, blocked for a bit with music. So if this
has been brought forward, forgive me. But are we looking at this for possibly replacing some fixed
routes on a trial basis or otherwise or is it for specific, only specific riders, for example, paratransit
qualified or something? Can you clarify that please?
PAUL HAMILTON: At least at this time we are, I think, the next program might speak more to
what you're talking about. This program is really designed to try to provide our paratransit riders
only, an option to booking trips in advance, an on demand solution, that won't cost them any more.
In fact, it costs them less. We would have it priced at the same price as our Access-a-Cab service.
But it's not trying to actually create service areas. Right now we're doing a pilot that would be set
to only occur in a four zip code service area so that we can test it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK thank you. So just in the same vein, looking at, thinking out of the box
and so forth, the much lower subsidy caught my eye. I don't know whether you can compare that
or try or think about whether it makes sense to look at some fixed route services to the extent that
we'd be able to use something like this or the next item as an approach to address the shortfalls.
I'm just suggesting you know, I know that you're talking about this. I'm just reinforcing it if so.
Thank you.
PAUL HAMILTON: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Anybody else? OK. Let's go look at another
innovative pilot, which is FlexRide and Metro Taxi. This one was also provided to the public and
to the directors in their packets. Is there anybody from staff who wants to step up to the plate and
answer any questions that may arise?
JEFF BECKER: Yes, Jeff Becker, Manager for Service Development. Should I just wait for some
questions or give a little more background?
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Why don't we see if anybody has questions first. Directors, anybody
like to speak to Mr. Becker about this pilot?

NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, here you go, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. In looking at the proposal, and please correct me if I'm wrong, is
this where we're [AUDIO OUT] shifting to the Metro Taxi during the off peak?
JEFF BECKER: Initially, this would be during the off peak hours from about 10:00 AM to 2:00
PM, which is the off peak and where we don't have very many riders. So we don't need a fleet
vehicle. And so this would be saving-- if this works out, then we could save by reducing the number
of fleet vehicles we need and then just paying for each trip that we actually need to use.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so when you and I had a conversation one day in conference room
A, this was back when we were talking about service changes, service reductions, so I believe
earlier this year we talked about the RFP. And one of the concerns at that point in time is that this
bid request went out and we didn't have responses. And even Metro Taxi, from my memory, Metro
Taxi hadn't even responded.
And we followed up and said basically we're concerned nobody responded and followed up that
Metro Taxi said they hadn't gotten the email about this notice to bid. And I wonder if part of the
reason we didn't get much notice response was because we had, I don't know what better way to
put it maybe, a lot of bureaucracy in it. And also in looking at that we are just having Metro Taxi
do these off hours, which is 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM. The way I kind of look at it is, we're kind of
giving you the leftovers and they're kind of stale leftovers.
And that's partly why we just didn't get quite the bid response that we may have had. Could you
perhaps comment just on that? And I'm sorry if that sounded a little bit rude, but I don't know a
better way to put it.
JEFF BECKER: Well, Director Menten, yes. We did have some conversations. And you know,
the difficulty of trying to work you know, in an integrated and innovative way between the public
and private sector and come up with a way that actually can benefit both. You save money or
somebody can make some money. And at the same time, I know you mentioned the bureaucracy,
but it's related to meeting all of the rules, the regulations and laws, like the ADA, Title Six, and
drug testing, all those things have to, you know, safety, training, that's already been mentioned.
We spent two years going through that and meeting with all of our internal staff and with probably
seven or eight potential service providers. And so we came up with one. I mean one is better than
none. If we can actually save some money for RTD and the private sector can make some money
as well and we carry our riders, so that's what the pilot is designed to do, to see if we can actually
do that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, where I'm and this is Natalie Menten, I know for the record, we need
that for the audio. Where I am concerned is that we haven't given them the higher volume hours.
And that we're almost-- And I love that we're bringing in the private sector to cover.

We've had this discussion at board retreats. And you know, it's glad to see it's moving forward. I'm
just concerned that we're not giving them the juicy end of the business, let's call it that if we can,
which is the peak hours. That it's perhaps destined to fail. That's a concern that I have. And I'm
again glad that we've got a pilot moving forward. But that is a concern that I see. And I think I'll
go with that.
And I would like to follow up to Director Cook with she had that question about perhaps replacing
some fixed routes instead of just the flex ride areas. But I would certainly love to see some
expansion, but from that private sector and you know, we all know that they can't count on the
subsidies like we do. They don't have the grant from the feds that debt money to back up in the
magnitude that we do, things like that. So I'm going off a little bit.
But that's my thought. I'm just a little bit worried about the limited hours, that it's just going to be
really difficult to make this work. But I really do want to see it succeed with transit vouchers. I
would even like to see it expanded, where it's a direct voucher to the customer. And I don't know
how we work that out, to really be a community discussion. That they just have the choice of
whether it's they want to use Metro Taxi or if they want to use Uber or they want to use Lyft,
For that taxpayer who lives in the rural areas and really doesn't get the bang for their buck, and as
we talk about Reimagine. That's what a real transit voucher program might look like and providing
options for them. And that's the difference as an example of Green Mountain Call-and-Ride, which
would be another great area because of a very high subsidy level on Flex Ride. It's near, I don't
know about-- pre-COVID it was near $30 per boarding subsidy.
And if we weren't able to offer that through transit voucher, that means the person whose service
worker getting off a catering gig at midnight would have the choice to use that transit voucher as
they see fit to be able to get off the West Line to go to their, you know, apartment over on Vang
Street, giving them that flexibility where we don't have that right now for them. So those are my
thoughts. I do appreciate moving forward with this program. I hope you know that I was trying to
speak nicely about all of it. OK. Thanks. Bye.
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Peggy Catlin.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know what? I appreciate Director Menten's comments and I agree that I'm
excited for this pilot program to move forward and hope that it could be extended to some other
areas, not only the Green Mountain area but others. One question I had was that during this COVID
19 plan, we suspended the subscription model for Flex Ride. And it was really only you could call
24 hours in advance. And my concern is that that subscription option had a great deal of appeal to
people, particularly in my South Jeffco area. But I'm sure in other areas.
And my concern is that this pilot program, when started, if we have another peak of the COVID
19 and have to do a similar service plan, would that kind of derail this particular pilot program's
success or data? I'm just a little bit concerned about some of those bugs that might ensue in the
pilot program. I mean Director Menten already highlighted the fact that the prime areas, like peak

periods and that kind of thing are not available for this pilot program, but just for the off peak
periods, so I'm a little bit concerned about the viability.
But also what if we have another resurgence of COVID 19 and have to fall back to that particular
plan that we were on that suspended subscription. I'm wondering if you have any thoughts about
what the impact of that could be.
JEFF BECKER: This is Jeff Becker, Service Development Manager. Well, we're already in the
pandemic plan. Ridership has come down drastically for FlexRide as it has for much of our other
services. I just did a check, it was about a week or two ago. During the off peak period for the
entire Denver Tech Center, the Southern Service areas, there was only 10 rides for the entire
service area.
So on the one hand, you know, the pilot is not going to be a great pilot in terms of having a number
of riders to really test it out. On the other hand, it's going to be very low risk. We'll be able to get
something going, you know, work out the bugs. And this is the foot in the door, right? This is step
one.
And then another step would be to use it to supplement Flex Ride during the peak periods when
the ridership is in excess of what we can sometimes provide. And also extend it to other service
areas. But we got to get this going first. And it is possible even to add other service providers, not
just Metro Taxi. Does that answer your question?
PEGGY CATLIN: You know, it does. Thank you for clarifying that. And I appreciate that we have
to start somewhere. So maybe I was leaping ahead too far with some assumptions that might not
have been valid. But I actually appreciate the fact that you pointed out that it is fairly low risk,
given the low ridership right now. All right, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Catlin. Anybody else?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten. I want a second bite whenever I'm up, if that's appropriate.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's fine, Director Menten. I'm just going to point out that we have a long
way to go in this meeting. So go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I've been waiting since March 10th to ask this question so my
patience is pretty good too. That's when mass transit did the article on LA Metro, which I have up
in front of me. LA Metro expands the reach of transit with Lyft. Lyft riders can now take shared
rides to and from select metro rail stations during weekday rush hour for a $3 flat fare.
What I'm wondering is, since Mr. Washington, as far as I know, is still the general manager, but
could be different, I guess. Whether we might invite him to speak during one of our Operations
and Customer Service meetings in the coming months to share the experience of how that's
working for LA Metro. So I guess I'm addressing that to you, Chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: I don't know that I'm the appropriate person to answer that question. I think
that there's a lot of things that we can do. But we have to start with what we've got here. And if
you want to take that to the staff as a suggestion, I think that would be fine.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, All right.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah I don't know, I don't know that we want to do that right now, but I'm
game for us to explore that. I think that maybe you should write that up and send it to-- I don't
know who would start that process.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'll have a conversation with Mr. Ballard.
KATE WILLIAMS: That would be a good place to start. I'm sorry. I'm thrown.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's OK. Like I said, I've been wanting to ask that since March, especially
when he is our former GM. If he'd be willing to share maybe 15 minutes with us to tell us how the
first two months of that has gone and maybe we'd all like to learn from one another. So I'll leave
it at that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I think that's great, great idea. Anybody else want to speak to this
pilot programs? I'm going to say thank you very much to Mr. Ford and all of his staff for putting
these innovative projects together. And with that note, we're going to move on to the next update,
which is reimagine and appropriate segue. This was a very detailed presentation. I did point out to
all of the board that we will also have this presentation on Wednesday at 2:30 and on Thursday
morning at 7:30/ but I believe that Mr. Sirois Is probably on this call. If he wants to speak to
anything here before we go to questions.
BILL SIROIS: Sure. Chair, this is Bill Sirois. Just wanted to say a few words before we go to
questions. I know Brian and Bruce and I are really disappointed that we can't go through 47 slides,
but we will make due. The one thing I did want to say is, you know, given the sobering discussion
that we had previously, one of the things we think with Reimagine it's really important that it really
does provide us a good framework to have a conversation with our key stakeholders, the groups
that we've set up purposely to involve kind of people that we think are critical to the conversation
about transit in the region, so we know we're going to have to go through a lot of difficult decisions.
And I think having this framework established helps us with that. And I just wanted to make that
point because I do think that as we go through, and as we can talk about tonight, we are willing to
pivot. We've been working hand in glove with Heather through this whole financial situation and
have been constantly kind of repivoting how we're going to do this. And obviously with the current
situation and the situation, the information presented tonight, we are going to have to make major
pivots to kind of address, particularly the near-term needs, of our service.
So with that, I will just open it up for questions. Bruce. Able, Brian Welch and I are all available
to answer any questions you may have on the material that was submitted to the Board.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Sirois. Is there anybody on the Board who has questions
about this presentation?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: This is Chair Malpiede. I do. I have one question for Mr. Abel.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What message are you trying to convey in the map that shows the
bus routes that is experiencing demand exceeding physical distancing guidelines.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce Abel.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes please, Mr. Abel, go ahead.
BRUCE ABEL: OK, thank you, Madam Chair. Well, I believe the Board knows that the system
optimization plan was originally designed to work with our technical advisory group and our
advisory committee to develop a system optimization plan for implementation in 2021. The
committee has really strongly suggested and staff agrees that, given the current COVID
circumstance, that as Bill mentioned, we pivot in the short run to address how COVID, how we
need to address COVID, and they've raised the question as well as, does COVID redefine our
definition of success, given what we're going through right now and who are primary travel
markets are?
So we've included that map because it shows the bus routes that are experiencing ridership that's
been exceeding our physical or social distancing goals, so that the board and folks can see where
our ridership is continued to hold up through this COVID time. We've spoken about, and there is
a graph in here about the market decline in ridership that's taken place as a result of COVID. So
we wanted to take a look at where has our ridership been holding up.
And these are the areas that we've had to either review or actually supplement service, because
that's where our ridership has been holding up. So you can see that these routes really line up very
well with the equity communities in the metro area. And by equity communities, we mean those
geographic area where high percentages of minority population, where persons of low income live,
where persons with no auto households, seniors, students reside. And this really seems to imply to
us that these are the areas where essential workers reside and they have continued to use transit to
get to their jobs.
So we have seen ridership that has sort of exceeded the 15 passengers on a standard transit coach,
20 on Artic (Articulated Bus) And as was mentioned earlier, we've seen our ridership drop more
on rail and it hasn't dropped as much on bus. So we're also raising this because with our social
distancing it reduces the capacity of our buses by almost 2/3. 38 passenger bus is limited to 15. 53
passenger bus is limited to 20.
So we've all seen the financials, both in the financial presentation as well as in the Reimagine
presentation. And we just wanted to point this out because we're going to have very, very
constrained financial resources, especially in the short run, '21, '22. So we wanted the board to be

aware of the recent ridership trends. Because as we continue to provide the COVID levels of
service, we just wanted to all be aware of where these services are being used.
Because if we get in the financial position where it becomes more difficult because of the capacity
constraints to allocate our resources to service on the street, we want to be sure that we focus our
resources, both service and dollars, in the area where we're going to get the best ridership. Because
we're going to be very hard pressed, given our financial circumstances, to even continue the
COVID level of service, let alone expand beyond it.
So again, we're just bringing this, in light of comments that the technical committee, the advisory
committee have shared with us, we all need to raise the question of, are we redefining success?
How do we want to move forward as we move to developing a phased approach over the next five
years that can fit in our financial plan. Who do we want to make sure that we're serving as we
allocate these services?
So again, our core mission is moving people. So we just wanted to show this to answer people's
questions about who's riding where, so that we can begin to think about, what are we going to be
looking to do in '21, '22, as we begin to phase in the system optimization plan. I hope that answers
your question. Sorry if it's a little long winded, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, thank you, it does, sir.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you. Mr. Abel. Thank you, Chair. Anyone else have a question
regarding Reimagine and the information that we were presented?
JUDY LUBOW: This is Director Lubow.
KATE WILLIAMS: I hear Director Lubow and Director Lewis both. So we'll let Director Lubow
go first.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. You know, I guess I'm feeling that the world is-- we can't predict
very well what our world is going to look like, especially in regard to transit. We don't know-- we
don't know if people are going to be going back to physical places to work. We don't know if
they're going to want to be in compact areas with a lot of people being driven someplace. I mean,
everything may be different.
And under those circumstances, I'm wondering what are we doing with our long term planning
because we don't know what it's going to look like. And I'm very concerned that we're going to
continue kind of, well, we'll just make our assumptions based on what they used to be. But we
don't know if those assumptions are still going to be accurate.
Madam Chair, Madam Chair, may I? This is Bruce.
KATE WILLIAMS: Certainly, Dr. Abel, have at it.
[LAUGHING]

BRUCE ABEL: You know, I think Director Lubow is right on mark. I mean, there are slides in
this deck that describe that very phenomenon. On the demand side of the equation, we've got
people, employees, wanting to telework instead of commuting to work. We've got employee being
more willing to allow them to work remotely as opposed to returning to physical office.
We see for example, Dr. Cobb continuing or developing programs to promote the continuation of
telework in the metro area. So those are indeed all we see. The results are in the slide deck of our
survey about people's likelihood to return to transit. And all of those issues really lead us to the
same conclusion, Director Lubow from the demand side of the equation we're really in a new world
and we're going to have to be flexible to see how that new world evolves.
On the supply side of service, we're going to be incredibly financially constrained. So we wanted
to say, be able to show at least, hey, this is where ridership is holding up. This is where our essential
riders, or our riders who are our essential workers because they are continuing to use transit despite
everyone else staying home. So that's just a consideration as we look about network design for
2021.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes I'm also wondering because it seems like Reimagine is double pronged.
There's the system optimization, but there's the long term analysis. What are we going to do with
the long term analysis when we don't know what's going to happen. What are we planning to do
under those circumstances realistically with our Reimagine money for the second prong.
BRUCE ABEL: Well, there are a variety of issues that we'll be looking at the phase two of
Reimagine. We're working-- you may recall that we've utilized cell phone travel pattern data as
part of our process. We're looking to get cell phone travel pattern data that was compiled during
the shelter at home to see how travel patterns have changed. We're going to really be monitoring
what does occur. We're looking very much at the nontraditional services that have been discussed
earlier in today's meeting, what role are they going to play? How do we engage in partnerships
with other service providers?
So I think that all of these kinds of things are going to be looked at in the longer run. But right
now, and our advisory committees have said, we really need to pivot to look at how are we going
to have an RTD in the long run. So how are we going to get there in the short run, which is where
they have suggested that we focus today as many directors commented earlier. Wow, will there be
an RTD in five years We want to make sure there is that we can address the long term issues.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I agree that we have to deal with the short run a lot because it's hard.
It's going to be a real hard one. But can I ask one more one more question? And it has to do with
funding. I mean our whole system may change in terms of RTD is like a wheel and spokes and
Denver is the hub. But we're having a system now where people have stopped riding the rail, and
they're basically using the local buses. So our whole system might need to be rethought, including
funding.

Because you know, maybe the outlying regions may feel you know, we don't need the regional
stuff. now because we're not going to use transit for regional uses. Are people thinking like that?
BRUCE ABEL: I think that we're getting-- we're getting all kinds of comments are the technical
working group and the advisory committee. And that's where we're attempting respond to first and
foremost in the pivot to the short term. But, yes, we're hearing all kinds of conversation as it relates
to the long term and some of the comments that you just made, Director Lubow, are part of those
conversations.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much. I'm glad I wasn't the only one thinking them in my
own head.
BILL SIROIS: Chair, Chair this is Bill Sirois. I wanted to add to Bruce's comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Please, Bill.
BILL SIROIS: The one thing I was just going to add too, I mean on the rail side, rail is part of the
System Optimization Plan and we haven't really talked about it. But we are looking at ways that
we can be more efficient with our rail service. And we will be coming to the Board eventually with
recommendations. So you'll see some things that may change fundamentally how we might look
at rail. So I do think that's something we really haven't gotten into yet that much. But as we get
into looking at a draft System Optimization Plan we are going to look at some things that may
change how we operate rail.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sirois. I believe Director Lewis was waiting to
ask some questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS This is more of a process question. It's literally just one question. I've heard a
number of times-- and I appreciate Director Lubow's point --I've heard a number of times that this
practice is Board driven. And I know we've said we want to make sure that this is being responsive
to what COVID looks like and what our transportation looks like in the face of COVID. And so
I'm curious as a director, and this being something that is director led, how do we as a board redirect
Reimagine to be more innovative, and looks at a world that is more focused on the short term just
because we are so uncertain of what to expect moving forward.
BILL SIROIS: This is Bill Sirois. I'll take an initial shot at that and I'll let Brian and Bruce add to
it. What I'll say is that, you know, from the perspective of this process we are pivoting now and
being I think being responsive to the financial situation. We have to do that. We have to
fundamentally change how he approach this because of the dramatic changes we're seeing
financially. So we will be doing that and we'll be having critical conversations with the Board and
with staff, I mean, with our stakeholders about what that means.
We've already heard from stakeholders consistently about the idea of partnerships and we're going
to have to be looking at those partnerships, I think in innovative ways to do that, especially given
the light of what kind of the level of cuts that we're probably going to consider. So we will be
doing that. I think it's just a matter of we're trying to kind of work hand-in-hand with the finance

group as our financial picture is becoming more clear and our situation is looking more dire. So
we are doing that.
You know, it may just take us a cycle or a meeting to catch up. But we're doing that and we will
do that. And I think, like you said, a lot of the conversation that we're having right now, we will
start with our working groups. But I think we may have some of that-- we're adding a meeting in
July. Because we do think that that's important to have that. But I think from the board perspective
and the board driven providing us direction.
And if you have specific ideas about how to be innovative, please provide that to us. Because we
will look at that. But I think what we are trying to be responsive to the situation given you know,
kind of as our financial situation consistently is updated with looking at that and how it impacts
the Reimagine process.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis, more?
SHONTEL LEWIS No, I was just saying, I appreciate that. And I think one other-- this is really
my last question is around our service standards. How do we anticipate that showing up in this
process? I'm asking specifically about the service standards as they might pertain to social
distancing and those smaller loads.
BRUCE ABEL: Well, so this is Bruce Abel, if I may Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Please, sir.
BRUCE ABEL: I think that is one of our very real concerns as we look at a financially constrained
service plan which will limit the hours of service that we can provide, while at the same time social
distancing cuts the physical capacity in each bus by approximately 2/3. It's going to be very
important that we put our services on the street in areas where we can maximize ridership, because
with the capacity constraint on each vehicle and our service level constraint because of finances,
that's going to become a much more important issue and our service standards will have to address
those and perhaps be modified in the short term and then see how things evolve in the longer term.
SHONTEL LEWIS Thank you so much. Thank you. Can we give Jesse Carter a raise?
BRUCE ABEL: That was the plan, wasn't it?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. That was the plan. And the other thing I am going to go back to the rest
of the directors for questions. But I have a question myself. I'm going to invoke privilege. Are we
presenting the two pilots that we heard about tonight to the Reimagine groups?
BRUCE ABEL: Yes, I would anticipate that the types of pilots that we heard about earlier will
very much be involved in Reimagine because we need to stretch our financial resources as far as
possible to address our core mission, which is moving people, not running vehicles, but moving

people. And so we'll be looking at all types of those partnerships, innovative service delivery
methods, so that we can maximize the movement of people with our very limited resources.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Mr. Abel. Anybody else want to speak to Reimagine?
BOB BROOM: Director Broom.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom, you have the floor.
BOB BROOM: When will these pilot projects start?
BRUCE ABEL: I will have to defer to Mr. Ford and his team relative to the pilots that were
discussed earlier today and their timelines.
MICHAEL FORD: I believe one was in August and the other one is in the fall. I believe September,
but I couldn't-- I'm sorry, Michael Ford COO and I would defer to Jeff and to Paul to correct me
if those dates aren't correct.
PAUL HAMILTON: This is Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager of Paratransit Services. And yes, our
paratransit pilot is due to start in August.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Becker.
JEFF BECKER: Yes, we're prepared to start this month in the Denver Tech Center and get it going.
KATE WILLIAMS: Nice. Director Broom. you got your answer. Anyone else? OK. I'm going to
move this meeting on down the road. Thank you Mr. Ford and all of your staff for all of that
information. We have a number of informative articles following, eight of them to be exact. And
then I believe we have some other matters. So I'm going to read them off, and then I'm going to be
quiet for a minute and anybody who has questions on these, I'm hoping that if you had questions,
you sent them directly to staff prior to this meeting. But if you need to ask them now, we'll do that.
So the first information item is the Access-a-Ride, Access-a-Cab 2020 First Quarter Report. We
have Access-a-Ride complaints Access-a-Cab complaints, on time performance, Access-a-Ride
Monthly Operations Report, Access-a-Ride Monitoring Survey and the APAC Summary. Is there
any information that the staff feels that they need to add to any of those items?
Hearing nothing, I'm going to go to the directors. Directors, does anybody have questions on any
of those items? OK, you guys did your homework. The next update that we have informational
item is contractor fixed route quarterly report. We have the Customer Service Monitoring
Summary Report and quarterly performance stats. Staff was there anything anybody needs to add
to that?
Oh, Contracted services. That's my bad, please accept my apologies. Contracted services
monitoring report. Hearing nothing from the staff or any of the directors have questions on either
of those reports.

PEGGY CATLIN: This is Director Catlin. I was just going to say that quarter one it's going to be
vastly different from quarter two. So I think that there will probably be many more comments
based on the comparison of quarter one and quarter two in these reports.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that's a valid observation, Director Catlin. Anyone else questions or
comments on these items? OK, the next one is Customer Comment Analysis First Quarter 2020.
Staff, any questions or comments or directors any questions or comments? And I'd like to point
out for those who are still following along with us at this time of night, that all of this information
is available on the RTD website in detail.
Hearing nothing, I'm going to move on to the fourth informational item which is Flicks Ride
Quarterly Report for the first quarter of 2020. Anybody, staff, directors? OK, crickets. The
information line of number five is the 2020 First Quarter Monitoring Report, Private Contractor,
Drug And Alcohol Compliance. Anybody from staff want to speak to that or any directors have
questions on that report?
We are moving right along now. Informational item number six is the First Quarter 2020 Security
Statistics and the Fair Inspection Summary. Any staff that want to address that or any directors
that have questions on that?
Informational item number seven is Surface Availability Report we have the Service Availability
2020 memo and the update to lost hours. Any staff that needs to speak to either of those or any
directors that have questions on those reports?
OK. Informational item number eight, the Rail Operations Update for May, 2020. That would be
Mr. Jensen's purview. And any staff that needs to speak to that or any directors that have questions?
Hearing nothing, we just went through those at a very good speed. Took a whole lot longer to read
them all. Hearing none on those informational items, I will move on to other matters. And I'm
going to ask if there is anyone who has other matters to bring to my attention.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Guissinger.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Briefly, the accountability committee that we sent a draft redlined draft
everyone on Friday. I'm pretty sure that that's the final version now. And Pauletta Tonilas and her
communications team are working with the state, you know the General Assembly and the
governor's communication team to put together a press release. We expect that to go out Thursday.
So I'm asking if anyone has comments. We've had a pretty, it seemed like a strong board support
moving forward before.
This will be coming back. I need to talk with Ms. McManus, I guess, and get it on the calendar for
you know, and official approval. But we're taking that as approval from before, so if you have any
concerns or changing your mind on that, please speak now or let me know or Let the chair know.

But it seems like we're reaching the end. The appointments will be made by July 15. And the
committee will start its work before the end of July.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Appreciate that update. Are there any other
matters from staff or any other matters?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. This is Director Catlin. I wanted to mention that we do have an
Executive Search Committee slash GMOC meeting scheduled for this Friday. And Ms. McManus
has sent out the agenda. And I just wanted everybody to be aware that we have that scheduled for
Friday. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. I'm still calling for anybody who wants to speak.
Speak up. PAUL BALLARD: Chair, this is Paul Ballard, COO and General Manager. Mr. Ballard,
you have the floor.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. Our chair received a letter from the Downtown Denver
Partnership regarding the 16th Street mall. And they're asking us to keep our buses off the mall
until after Labor Day. I believe copies of that letter were sent to all members of the board. And I
just wanted to check and see if any board members had any input on that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. I myself found that very interesting. It's unusual for
us as the transit company to have our businesses ask us not to provide transit service in their
locations. But I can see why. Are there any of the directors who want to speak to that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, hang on, let's see. I'm going to-- Director Lewis, do you want to speak
to the 16th Street mall issue?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just said a question, an inquiry about the reason, the why behind not having
our bathroom on the mall.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes ma'am. Well, in reading the letter that came to us yesterday, it just says
that they want to expand restaurant and take over the entire sidewalk and let pedestrians walk
where the bus would normally drive. That's what they want to do.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, how long would that be in effect and how does that impact our riders?
PAUL BALLARD: They're saying until September 8 and our riders would not be riding.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I understand that they won't be riding that that's a no brainer. Do we have
folks who are utilizing our services to get to and from work? I'm I know I had someone reach out

to me, a couple of folks actually with the closures for the protests and a gentleman actually missed
his dialysis disappointment. And so when I think of the impacts to riders, that's more my line of
questioning.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
BOB BROOM: This is Director Broom. I think we need to have a hearing or something to let other
people voice their feelings about this, rather than just one organization downtown. Because what
you're hearing from is from the restaurant industry. But there's a lot of other people downtown and
we're just going to get a black eye if we don't listen to everybody before we make a decision on
that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, Director Broom. Mr. Ballard, do you have anything you
want to add to this?
FRED WORTHEN: Director Williams, this Fred Worthen ATM of Bus Ops.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: Hopefully you can hear me better. I apologize. I'm having terrible cellular
connections tonight. One thing I would like to point out is that we have a significant amount of
service that is actually paralleling the 16th Street mall, services that operate up 17th and 18th Street
that basically are one block away from where the current mall quarter operates. And we actually
have higher levels of service running through there than we have ever had before.
For example, the 15 parallels the 16th Street mall. The zero parallels the 16th Street mall. So there
are a lot of options available to our riders. It's just, they would have to walk over about a block.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen That's a great observation.
BRIAN IACONO: Madam Chair, Director Folska.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Folska.
JUDY FOLSKA: Thank you. I have two comments. First of all, I don't know, maybe I didn't get
this information, Director Guissinger, I'd like to have my questions answered for the appointment
you know, the 2000 and whatever those things were that we talked about. And maybe I missed it,
but if you don't mind sending that to me, I would appreciate it because I thought it was going to
come back to the board before for a final vote. That last was just a head nod. That was my
understanding. So if I'm wrong, please correct me. But I thought that we were still discussing this,
that it's not an already done deal, at least that we know more details.
And you know, regarding the 16th Street mall, the reason that they put-- I think you know, correct
me, Bruce, you probably will remember, some of you, maybe it was 1982 when we started the

16th Street mall, is that right? And we did it because the traffic congestion between vehicles and
our buses on 15th and 17th was just unbearable.
And the 16th Street mall is the hub behind everything that we do. And it really connects, you know
Civic Center and Union Station. And it's really vital for folks. To think we have like 45,000 people
before the pandemic, of course, 45,000 people a day during the week using the 16th Street mall.
And I do appreciate the need for the restaurants to open up and expand.
But that's a pretty wide sidewalk actually. And maybe they could remove some of their street art
and we could still provide service. Because really if you think about the 16th Street mall shuttle
it's more like a horizontal elevator. That's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY FOLSKA: You're welcome.
JUDY LUBOW: Madam Chair, Director Lubow.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I want to comment on the 16th Street mall and I just support what
Director Broom had said that I don't think-- I think it would be very good to open it up to the public
to get some public perspective on what they want, more than just us people deciding on our own
based on the request of one group. I support his idea. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Any other directors want to speak to the 16th Street mall
issue.
NATALIE MENTEN: : Menten.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: : I don't recall getting an email on this. Did I just miss it? Did it go to my
spam folder? Was it sent to us?
PEGGY CATLIN: Catlin, I didn't get one either. I didn't get one either.
PAUL BALLARD: Barbara sent it out because I saw it. I got a copy.
KATE WILLIAMS: Directors, I --I did, I did receive it myself. So it went to all directors from Ms.
McManus.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Ms. McManus, would you mind sending that again tomorrow? She's
probably gone home to bed.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'd be happy to. No, I am here.

KATE WILLIAMS: Appreciate it. Directors, you'll all get it tomorrow. And then look at it and
respond. I would assume, Mr. Ballard, do you want them to respond to you?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes ma'am, that would be most helpful and that way we can get a sense of the
support and we'll get some more information and then pursue it. But any thoughts that you have
after you read the letter, please share your thoughts with me. I'd appreciate it. Thank you very
much. Thank you, Mr. Ballard.
NATALIE MENTEN I have one follow up. Menten.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN I'm going to ask-- let's go with Bruce Abel. He can respond to this. Would
you say, Bruce that it is correct, it is correct that the Downtown Denver Partnership has been
wanting to get the 16th Street mall shuttle off to 16th street for a long time?
BRUCE ABEL: There has been a very extended process that took about two years and wrapped
up maybe about a year ago. Susan Wood, I don't know if Brian Welch or Bill Sirois would want
to chime in, but there was a lot of conversation about whether or not RTD would vacate the 16th
Street mall. But the final conclusion agreed to by the city, the Denver Partnership, and RTD is that
we would remain on the mall and we would make the appropriate improvements to continue the
operations.
NATALIE MENTEN All right, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Anyone else on the 16 Street mall?
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Guissinger. I would just respond to Director Folska hearing a lot of
noise there. That you know my hope was to have it brought back for an official motion. I will
certainly get that out to you again tomorrow. It's moving more quickly than we expected.
And the request came from the General Assembly, from the legislators to make an announcement
this week. But I will get that to you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yo, yo. One second, ladies, ladies, one second, you all are referring to the
accountability committee, is that correct?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Correct. Correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: This is not to do with the 16th Street mall and you are responding to Director
Folska's request earlier for more input on the accountability committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's correct.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Folska.
JUDY FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So with all due respect, we also have our process and
we are an independent entity as far as I know still. And I think that the transportation, the TLRC
Committee meets all year long. And so I think we need to say Yeah, OK, well, we're doing this
but we also have a process. And I don't think that we should lose our own process and that integrity
associated with it. So I'm not comfortable sending it out just because they're demanding it before
they end their session. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. OK,
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: This is Director Tisdale. If I may, on the 16th Street mall I agree with the
comments by Director Broom and others that we, obviously, it's a time sensitive question. But
nonetheless should use one of our perhaps study sessions or other meetings that we have scheduled
this month for addressing that question, at least for the appearance of transparency. Thank you
very much, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome, Director. OK, we have other matters? Any other matters?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis, you have the floor.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Chair. I just wanted to bring-- I reached out to a number
of directors and you all should have this in your email boxes a proposal that I wanted to put
together. It's in draft form around prioritizing funds for mental health support professionals within
RTD. And you can think of this similar to the partnership that we have with MHCD where mental
health professionals paired with and had the opportunity to respond to our transit security officers.
I won't read into the record unless someone thinks it's important because I know it's late and I
imagine many of you are tired. I won't read into the record the exact language, but essentially it's
really prioritizing funding to expand mental health support since I know we've had a number of
discussions about folks on our platforms on our properties who have been in distress and needed
support should not have been a criminal response, and in fact a mental health response. This is just
putting some language to the opportunity to do that and to prioritize our people from a public safety
and a public health lane and reallocating and reinvesting dollars to do so.
You all can read this I put this I wanted to have this discussion intentionally during this time
because I wanted the Board to co-create what this resolution could look like. And it was really
something that we could all take ownership around. And so I'll stop talking. I had a long thing that
I want to say, but I imagine folks have questions and/or suggestions. But what I'm asking tonight
is to have two board members who might be willing to sign onto this to bring this to an official

vote on June 23. And so I'll stop there you will have it. And I'm happy to hear your questions,
CONCERNS input, ideas.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. We appreciate that does anybody-- I'm assuming
that everybody received from Director Lewis the draft of this proposed idea and if anybody would
like to speak to it, please do so now. OK. I think that maybe we need to digest it, Director Lewis.
I appreciate the work that you put into this. I think it's timely. And I will get back to you with my
comments.
I'm hearing nothing.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I will ask if there are any directors who have had an opportunity to
preview this who would be willing to sign onto this to bring it to an official vote, I'm happy to
connect with you via email if you all are feeling exhausted and this might not be the time to have
this discussion. But we'd like to advance this one in the wake of all the things that have gone on
for many, many years. But also what's going on in the recent days.
KATE WILLIAMS: So, you are right I'm not sure anybody's mental health is up to it at the moment
since it's 10:30 at night. But I think that if you want to have the Board office seek responses from
all of the directors in a short period of time because you're looking at the 23rd, so that's two weeks
from now, is that correct?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, that's our board meeting.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. At the board meeting. So let us assume that you will then send out a
follow up and seek responses and finalize the proposal for the board meeting on the 23rd. Correct?
SHONTEL LEWIS: You got it.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you so much,
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. This is Barbara-- this is Barbara McManus. I think we did share earlier
with Director Lewis what the process is in bringing something like this forward. And it hasn't
formally been brought forward through a committee or the executive committee prior to going to
a board meeting. So if this were to move forward with the support of other directors, it would be
in the July cycle.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Lewis, are you on board with what the process that Ms.
McManus is describing?

SHONTEL LEWIS: So I actually did not receive that, so I don't know who sent that to me. But I
am happy to have this conversation offline and I'm also aware of times when that has not been the
process but happy to have this conversation offline.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Great. We're here at your disposal.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that. Thank you both for making that process work. Are there
any other matters that anyone wants to bring before this committee at this time? OK. Thank you.
Hearing nothing, the next meeting of this committee will be July 14, 2020, same time, same bat
channel. And I would accept a motion to adjourn this committee meeting.
BOB BROOM: So moved.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Broom. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.

