## I. Executive Committee Agenda

2nd Vice Chair Menten, acting as presiding chair of the Executive Committee, called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.

Committee members in attendance:                Chair Pro Tem Menten, Treasurer Hoy and Secretary Walker; participating in the meeting remotely were Chair Sisk and Director Tobiassen

Other Board members present:                Directors Anderson, Bagley and Francone

Others present:                Interim General Manager Genova and Paula Perdue

## I. Call to Order

2nd Vice Chair Menten, acting as presiding chair of the Executive Committee, called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.

Committee members in attendance:                Chair Pro Tem Menten, Treasurer Hoy and Secretary Walker; participating in the meeting remotely were Chair Sisk and Director Tobiassen

Other Board members present:                Directors Anderson, Bagley and Francone

Others present:                Interim General Manager Genova and Paula Perdue

## II. Motion to Approve

Chair Pro tem Menten asked for a motion to approve this item.

Motion:              Director Hoy made the motion to approve this item.

Director Walker seconded the motion

Discussion:              Director Hoy indicated he did not see the need for this item. Chair Pro tem Menten inquired if the full Board had seen the redlined copy and requested it be sent to the full Board.  Director Bagley concurred he did not feel it was necessary.  Director Tobiassen expressed that it felt like we were nitpicking and asked why this needed to be formalized.

Chair Sisk provided the background of the event with CDOT that precipitated the revival of this issue.  These were protocols or common courtesies that have always existed but just not formalized.  He personally believes we need some flexibility in who attends certain meetings and he gave an example of the 25th ADA anniversary; however, he is OK with the action item.

Paula Perdue provided further background.  She stated that since she has been here there has always been some form of protocols around Board members and who attends what events.  These are common courtesies and were pretty well understood.  As we have transitioned to a new Board and new staff, particularly the PI team, this knowledge around common courtesy is being lost.  There are a number of faux pas occurring every day which is frustrating Board members.  She has heard from a number of Board members who are upset around not being invited to speak at (or even attend) an event that is being held in their District.  Formalizing this document is a way of educating Board members and staff on appropriate protocols for outreaching to Board members as we go forward.  Interim General Manager Genova expressed this just puts everyone on an equal footing as it relates to expectations.

Vote on

Motion:              The motion passed with the full committee in agreement.

Chair Pro tem Menten declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

#### 1. Board Protocols for Community Engagement and Events

It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors adopt these guidelines for planning RTD public hearings, public meetings and special events to coordinate with RTD Board members’ schedules, and for informing Board members and senior leadership of relevant third-party meetings and events.

## III. October Board Meeting Agenda Review

Interim General Manager Genova reviewed the Board agenda for Tuesday, October 27.  He noted we would be recognizing a number of people including the participants in the bus and light rail roadeo; this is important to recognize and he has asked his staff to move expeditiously through the process.  IGM Genova walked through the agenda noting which items had passed unanimously and which items would be on recommended action.  We are not anticipating any major issues.

Motion:                Director Hoy made the motion to move the October Board agenda before the full Board on October 27, 2015.

Director Walker seconded the motion.

Vote on

Motion:              The Committee voted in agreement.

Chair Pro tem Menten declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

#### A. January 2016 Service Plan

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors approve the January 2016 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $870,350 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

##### a. Atch  A January 2016 Service Change revised

##### b. Atch B Summary Electronically received Comments - January 2016 Service Changes

##### c. Atch C - r3 map

##### d. Atch D - r8 map

##### e. Atch E - r8_r31X_72 map

##### f. Atch F - r10 map

##### g. Atch G - r11 map

##### h. Atch H - r15 map

##### i. Atch I - r28 map

##### j. Atch J - r32 map

##### k. Atch K - r323 map

##### l. Atch L - rJ map

#### B. Free Rides for Members of the Military

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2016. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension will have minimal impact on RTD.

#### C. Recommended Changes to the Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare Program

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that RTD staff be authorized to make changes to the RTD Non-Profit Agency Reduced Fare Program as detailed in Attachment A of this action to be implemented by January 1, 2016.

## IV. Other Matters

- Director Anderson expressed there were a number of things she has been mulling over pertaining to the Board and committee meetings that are getting longer and longer.  Last Tuesday was excessive having started at 1:00 p.m.  She did not see the value of going from 5:30 p.m. to 9:00 rehashing the budget when it has been presented many times leading up to the October meeting.  Board members must do their due diligence in preparation and work with staff on the items they do not understand.  We need to spend our time on important matters.  She also does not understand why we need to have the Civil Rights meetings.  We used to have less Civil rights meetings but now they are part of the committee of the whole.  Of course this does not mean the Board is not concerned about civil rights; this agency is committed to civil rights.  Perhaps they could just include an update in our packets.  She also does not understand why we have to have Legislative Committee meetings every month.  Many of the issues are constitutional and there is not really anything we can do about them.  This appears a waste of our lobbyists’ time to come to these meetings and wait; this information update could also be included in the Board packets.  Directors should come to the meetings prepared and read their packets.  Some of the updates are important but more recently some of these should be a study session item instead of an update.  She just feels there is a way for us to have more effective meetings and reduce the level of frustration. Her bottom line is we have very important work to do in 2016 with the openings of 5 new lines.  She is pleading with her fellow Board members to look for ways to focus on the important issues during our meetings and to make this a less frustrating exercise, to get on with the business of this agency.

- Director Anderson expressed that she felt the Board should have been notified of the State findings before it hitting the newspaper. Safety is our # 1 priority.

Chair Sisk replied to the statement of the State audit noting this was a confidential process and information could not be released in advance.  He agreed also with the other statements made about increasing our meeting effectiveness and we need to look for ways to shorten the meetings. Chair Sisk noted the safety campaign and if it could be shortened or timing changed.  He did not feel we needed to beleaguer the point on the safety update.  IGM Genova expressed the staff is very sensitive to the time also and AGM Reed understood that but was trying to be responsive to a previous request by the Board for this information.

Director Walker agreed with much of what was said but stated he feels it is also disrespectful of Board members to leave while staff is presenting.  We need to be respectful of their time and work to present information to this Board.

- Director Hoy shared a discussion that he has been having with the FasTracks leadership.  As we complete projects, there may be times when a meeting is not needed.  They are looking at their options for how to effectively manage the FasTracks committee. Director Hoy also noted the Board was giving staff mixed messages.

- Paula Perdue requested permission to comment.  She noted and agreed with much of what Director Anderson had to say.  There is ample opportunity to have more effective meetings.  It is definitely within the purview of the Chair of the Board to review the committee structures and make recommendations for change.  We have had a number of committees that have terminated when the business was finished; it is definitely possible to roll FasTracks into another committee such as P&D or to put together a committee of Board members and SLT to provide recommendations back to the Board around committees.  Pertaining to Civil Rights, in the past Civil Rights was an adhoc committee and only came before the Board on important matters or action items.  Two years ago the Board changed it to a standing committee with all rights of a standing committee; even today Civil Rights does not come before the Board every month.  Likewise, with the Legislative Committee. It used to only come before the Board when the Legislature was in session (September through May period); however, it is within the purview of the Chair to decide when a meeting is needed.  This Board needs to become more self-policing and regulate itself accordingly.  The problem in implementing some of what has been suggested is this Board cannot agree upon what is important.  Each one of the members have his/her own priority list so who will say when an item is pure operational or if it merits a discussion before the full Board.  The Board gives out mixed signals to staff.  There are some Board members who want more information and some who wants less.  She thinks taking a look at the current committee structures is certainly merited.  In the end, the Board and the Chair of the Committees need to monitor and control their respective meetings.

- Director Francone commented as Vice-Chair of the Legislative Committee that it is within the purview of the Chair of that Committee to determine when meetings are needed.  They believe there are valuable things occurring on a state and local basis that may necessitate more meetings.  Obviously there are different ways to handle this and it may not be needed to have the lobbyists at every meeting; however, they believe they have added value to the relationship between RTD, our Congressional and State representatives by expanding their horizon and offering a chance for these new representatives to learn about RTD.

- Director Bagley commented it is incumbent on the Board members to do their homework and come to the meeting prepared. He sees no use for the Government Relations (Legislative Committee) having our lobbyists to come and talk about irrelevant things. He is indeed highly frustrated with this Committee.  Pertaining to the State audit, this was sent as a confidential document yesterday afternoon.  He does not know how Board members felt they could speak on behalf of the Board when they had not even read the report.  He feels the Executive Committee needs to get heavy handed with Board members.

- Chair Pro Tem Menten requested Paula to provide some of the guidelines pertaining to the Committees and structure and to provide ideas on how to shorten the meetings.  Paula respectfully commented that we have had professionals in to talk to Board members about meeting effectiveness and some of the Board members did not like what they had to say.  The answer on effective meetings is in best practices and doing some of what Director Anderson noted such as meeting preparation and limiting questions to items of relevancy.   She will work on preparing such guidelines on meetings structure.

- IGM Genova commented on the State audit and issues of confidentiality.  He noted these issues with bus operators had been addressed.  He has requested AGM Abel to provide him with a complete analysis on this issue.

- IGM Genova noted it would be simple to combine the FasTracks into the P&D meeting; however, staff has been criticized for not bringing information or updates to the Board prior to an action item.  There are many nuances to address and often they are walking a tightrope between the contrasting request of Board members or even the timeliness of when information is presented.  All of this needs to be in balance.  Director Hoy noted that sometimes the problem is not the staff but the Board.

- Chair Sisk commented on 4 items:

o        Pertaining to Government Relations, Committee Chair Folska had approached him early about wanting monthly meetings; he agrees that monthly meetings may not be needed.

o        As of the first week in January, 2016, the FasTracks and P&D committee will be combined.

o        We have received a date for the opening of the University of Colorado-A Line.  That will be April 22.  IGM Genova indicated he is receiving a number of inquiries about this.  Staff would like to take a disciplined approach and do a press release this afternoon with quotes from the Chair and IGM.  As part of his protocol, he extended a courtesy call to FTA (Linda Gerske) and the FRA advising them of this date.

o        Secretary Fox will be participating in this Transportation Matters Summit; Secretary Fox has requested a closed meeting with RTD to look at our WIN program.  He has made a unilateral decision that the two RTD Board members attending will be Director Walker and Solano, Chair and Vice-Chair of the Civil Rights Committee.

## V. Adjourn

The meeting adjourned at 1:00 p.m.