2020-07-16
Executive Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I'd like to call the executive committee to order, July
16th. It is 11:33 PM. And Miss McManus, if you could do roll call, that would be great. Oh, is she
on?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK, great.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I have Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede? First Vice Chair Peggy Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Second Vice Chair Shelley Cook? Secretary Vince Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Treasurer Lynn Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I also have John McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Paul Ballard, General Manager?
PAUL BALLARD: Paul's here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: General Counsel Melanie Snyder? And myself, Barbara McManus,
executive manager.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Jeff Walker is also on, I just saw. I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Did you say Director Walker and also Director Menten, right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm not seeing Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK.

NATALIE MENTEN: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, yeah. She is there. I'm also seeing-SHELLEY COOK: Shelley Cook just joined.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. All right. Cool. Thank you. The first thing on our executive
committee agenda is the July board meeting agenda review. Can I get a motion to accept the July
board meeting agenda, or is there any discussion on this?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Who moved?
PEGGY CATLIN: Lynn moved. I seconded.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Catlin seconds. Thank you. All in favor?
SPEAKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Say aye.
SPEAKER: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Aye.
SPEAKER: Aye.
NATALIE MENTEN: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any opposed? No, that's everybody. OK, so there is that. You
know, I want to talk a little bit about other matters in the process discussion. And you know, I
think that at the last meeting, it was really, really, really long. And I just wanted to get a point of
clarification, because I thought we had agreed to have informational items that we would not cover
at the meetings, that people could read them in advance and call and have discussions offline with
specific staff members. That was my recollection. Do any of you recall anything differently, or did
you feel like that was just a really long, tedious meeting we had on Tuesday night?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Long meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: Tedious.
[LAUGHTER]

PAUL BALLARD: Yeah. Yeah, and-BARBARA MCMANUS: More.
PAUL BALLARD: And this is Paul. And one of the problems we had was that two of our reports,
when we put them together, were misclassified as information items instead of updates. And so
we ended up doing the updates, and there were two of those in that category. So I mean we did
what we were supposed to do, but they were misclassified on the agenda. And we'll work hard to
try to prevent that from happening again. But the information items were not presented and/or
discussed. We just had a really, really long agenda, and the misclassification contributed to the
confusion on that. So sorry about that, but we actually didn't cover anything that we weren't
supposed to.
VINCE BUZEK: And I have to say-- pardon me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, those misclassified agenda items I thought could have been properly
classified as information items.
PAUL BALLARD: I'm glad to hear that, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: So maybe we should take a look at what we're classifying as-- because there's a
lot that we can put, I think, under information items, and people-- directors can call the appropriate
staff members to get questions answered offline, and-PAUL BALLARD: Absolutely.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I know some people like to ask questions online, because they've got an
audience. But we've got to just try to try our best to limit that.
PAUL BALLARD: And Melanie and I will pledge to really-- and Barbara, of course, because
Barbara is the ultimate gatekeeper, because she puts what we give her. But we will pledge to really
work harder to try and do that. And we're all in the 100% support of that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Miss McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I also plan on sending that board action that outlines all of the elements
that we originally approved to the board and staff so that they have a clear understanding of the
new process as well. You know, it's still fairly new, and so I think it's a good idea to just get it out
there and have them review what should happen. And you know, I think that everybody having
clear understanding and the staff being, of course, available to answer any questions ahead of time
the day before or so is always helpful. And I try-- myself and my team try to push that.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: This question in terms of process, would it be easier-- I'm thinking
when the agenda goes out on Thursday afternoons, those are the items we're going to be covering
in committee meetings, and then, ultimately, in the monthly board meetings. Could informational
items-- and this is just a question-- could informational items go out maybe on-- I don't know-Monday separately to the board and say, these are the informational items that the staff would like
to move forward. If you have any questions, please let us know.
And then they wouldn't be on the agenda so that people would pick them up. I don't know. What
do you think about that, or is that even a possibility? Or is that going to just make things much
more cumbersome?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I-- you know, historically, what we see is the information that gets sent
out external to the packet as opposed to the packet doesn't get reviewed any more thoroughly or
any more quickly by the board. You know, we can see when the board members open the packet
and when they review it and when they don't. And I just think that for public as well, the
information needs to be out there for them. So it still needs to be in the packet either way.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, got it. I just thought I would ask the question. Does anybody
else have any suggestions?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I have a-- I have a thought.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I haven't compared the times of other ones, but it seems like having
ops and FANA together are two big committees and that we run into this a lot. And I wonder if we
could look at some of the committees that don't take as much time and maybe realign those, so we
end up with a little more time. You know, that packet-- I think it was 275 pages, and it's really hard
to give a really thorough read to that much information.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might-- this is Peggy Catlin-- I actually posed that question a couple of
months ago, and Barbara told me that the reason that they're paired is because ops and finance are
so late and that things that come up in ops then translate to items that might be discussed in finance
and vice versa. So is that right, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, when we had looked at this in the past with both the AGMs of
those committees, they just felt that so much of the information dovetailed, that if they gave those- if they were on two separate dates, that it would be harder for the board to connect the dots on a
lot of the operational things that tie to finance. But we can approach that again and see what the
thoughts are.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. That would be great.
PAUL BALLARD: Hi. And this is Paul. Angie, I have a couple thoughts, if I may.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
PAUL BALLARD: These committee packets should stand on their own. I mean there are certainly
some connections, but I believe that the committee packets are fully capable of standing on their
own. And so I think we need to re-examine that suggestion, because that's a good one, because
those are our two committees that take the longest.
And then I want to go back to your suggestion, Angie, about separating out the information items.
And let me just take a little different approach to that. You were saying send them out on Monday
before the meeting. I think what we should do is sending them out before the regular packet. I
mean what if we sent out information items on a Wednesday, because the advantage of the
information items and being classified as such is that it encourages people to look at it and for
board members to call staff members and ask questions?
If we wait until Monday, that process won't work. But if we do it the Wednesday before, and we
just discipline ourselves to make sure that we have stuff ready to go on Wednesday that's
information, that would facilitate having board members who have the time to read it, think about
it, make some phone calls, and if they really, really need to talk about it on Tuesday, we'll know
that they really, really want to talk about it or that you want to really want to talk about it, because
I think you have the essence of a good idea, Angie. We just need to reverse when we send it out,
and let's do it before the committee packet. And I respect Barbara's point of view that it's hard to
get folks to read that.
But I think we put so much stuff out there, it's really unfair to the board members. We expect you
to read too much stuff. It's not right. And if we break it up, do the info packet in advance, gives
you extra time. You can look at the topic if you're interested. Read it if you're not. I would like if
you would consider that approach. I think that might help to solve multiple problems.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Cook, you wanted to say something.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, actually, Paul's ideas are great. I just-- I like the idea of re-examining
the question of whether finance and ops have to go on the same nights. The chairs also can take-can be a second level of review and say, boy, we seem to have a lot here. Can we put that one off
until July or August or whatever? So that's an idea.
But Paul's thoughts are great, so I just wanted to suggest-PAUL BALLARD: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: [INTERPOSING VOICES] agreement with that.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know, when I-- this is Peggy. I took the opportunity-- she talked about
chairs of both committees. I talked to Shelley, and I talked to Kate and asked some questions. And
then it was nice, because I subsequently got calls from staff saying, I understand you have some
questions. What can I answer-- even before I was prepared to call them.

And I had all my questions answered ahead of time, which minimized the amount of time that I
would have taken, although I probably spoke too much anyway. But that being said, Vince, we're
not going to prevent people that want to make statements publicly and have debates publicly to
benefit an audience. We're not going to be able to stop that at all.
VINCE BUZEK: Well, I understand that.
PEGGY CATLIN: And that's a time-- that takes up a lot of time, and it did this last meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's true. And I don't know. You know, we did send out the
protocol about everybody speaking for 2 and 1/2 minutes or whatever that was. And one of the
things was I realized just how tedious it's becoming to call on every single board member. It's
taking up also a lot of time, but I feel like everybody should have the opportunity to voice their
opinion. Clearly, the number of people who said, I have no questions, I have no questions, by the
time you get to number 15, we've spent like a lot of time doing that.
And so I was talking to Miss McManus this morning going, is there another way to get people to
do something? Because we don't have a virtual hand on this system to raise their hand to say that
they have a question or a comment. So that was the other thing. I also talked to the chairs of finance
and operations. I talked to both Shelley and to Kate Williams. And one of the things that Kate felt
was that if a staff person puts together an informational item, they should have the opportunity to
speak about it. That's kind of her position.
But she said she thought it might be a great idea is, perhaps, all of them-- informational items have
a one-page executive summary that board members could peruse to see if, in fact, they want to
delve deeper into it or if that would spark some questions for them in advance. But kind of torn,
because I think that the staff worked so hard putting together these committee reports and really
looking at the stuff that they need to get done that I don't want to add an extra layer of something,
particularly if board members are not reading them.
So I just think that this is-- we have a lot of information to cover, and we have a really tough next
six months to get through. And, in fact, one of the next items I want to talk about before we leave
this is the number of meetings that we have scheduled between now and just the end of August.
And I don't think-- I think the board was so tired by the time that came up in the meeting on
Tuesday night that I don't know if they've gone back and looked, actually, at all of the meetings
that have been scheduled.
So Shelley, you were just thinking that you wanted to get that sent out again, correct?
SHELLEY COOK: I do with a particular request that people look at it. I need to even go through
it as well to kind of reacquaint myself with what we're taking up. If I recall, Heather felt like when
I reached out to Barbara earlier, one suggestion had been made that if you all would rather
consolidate these or having them on regular meeting nights, and correct me if I'm wrong, but the
feedback was we really do need the meetings.

But maybe some people are more engaged on some issues than others. I don't know if they view
their commitment to the workshops in the same way. I don't know. What do you think about that?
Can we-- I don't want to make it optional, because it's really important stuff. But maybe people
can pick and choose the workshops that they're going to be focusing on most.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. You know, that's like the million dollar question in terms
of all 15 board members come from 15 different walks of life. Most people have other jobs besides
this job, and so we're talking about a huge time commitment right now to be able to complete the
work of the people as what's been set forward. And I think that everybody has delved in and tried
to figure out the most amenable way to have these meetings and to make sure that, again, we're
not being overloaded with information, because at some point, you're so saturated that you don't
process anymore.
And so that's one of the reasons why the meetings had to happen in that method. But Miss
McManus, do you want to add anything to that? I mean, this was just a tough thing, because we
have so much going on.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, there's-- I know they're only bringing-- they're only trying to
bring forward information in smaller bites so that we-- at the end, we have had the opportunity to
see the whole process of the progress that's being made not only with Reimagine, but with some
internal restructuring. You know, when we originally talked about these meetings, we actually did
cut it down by two, thinking that we could consolidate some of the information. And the last study
session that we had, I thought it was a great length of time with a good amount of information.
And I think it must have been easy for the directors to absorb what was being presented, because
there weren't an awful lot of questions brought forward. I think that the staff is on to something
with not bringing as much forward in longer, less frequent meetings. I wouldn't like to see
anything-- I personally wouldn't like to see anything consolidated, and I think that we're going to
find some of the meetings moving forward.
You know, I know, Chair, you think that some directors may have certain subject matters that they
specifically feel passionate about. But when it's all said and done, 15 directors need to make the
decision. And we can't be rehashing a lot of this information, because we just don't have the time
for it.
So there needs to be a lot of preemptive understanding behind the scenes with the questions that
they're asking staff as well as the information that's being brought forward in the manner that it is.
Paul, maybe you had some ideas. You know more about what's coming forward than I do subject
matter-wise.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, I think there are some really good opportunities to streamline what we're
doing. And tomorrow morning at SLT, I'll have an in-depth discussion. I think what I'll start doing
is participating in the agenda reviews. I participate in some but not all, so I'm going to start taking
a look at all of them and seeing how we can better organize.

And Angie, you're right. There are a lot of staff members who value their ability to present to the
board. I mean, that's-- for a lot of folks, that's very important. However, we can provide some
alternative ways and let them do some presentation to staff and so on. And then we can-- I think
we can-- I think we can deal with that. So we're not going to hurt their feelings.
But thank you for asking. And Madam Chair, you don't have the screen in front of you, but we do
have two participants who have their hands up on the screen. Number one is Vince, and number
two is Melanie.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Who's the first one?
PAUL BALLARD: Vince Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yes. Mr. Secretary?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair, for recognizing me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course.
VINCE BUZEK: So couple of things. I agree, Paul, with regard to these informational items. And
I'll say it again. I think we need to take a hard look at what's getting presented and see how much
more we can shift to it and not letting staff present is in no way intended to be a snub to them or
anything else about what they present. We appreciate what they have done. I think they would
probably like more to be done with a meeting earlier than go to 11 o'clock or midnight, because
they've got to present something on an informational item.
Getting back to one of the things that the chair raised earlier on was-- and it's just come up here-this inability to raise a hand. And the fact that as you cycle through 15 people two times on action
items-- first, if you have any discussion, second, now we're going to vote-- the platform we use
does not lend itself to fixing that.
And I really do not like this platform at all. I prefer something like this, where I can see there's
Melanie. There's Paul. I can see you all, and I appreciate that. I think that's something we're missing
in our connection to other directors. If we can't be physically present, at least more virtually
present.
Then we have that timing out after four hours. Everybody's going to put on music hold, having to
dial back in, and seeing what they've missed in the interim. So if there's any way we can-- because
I don't think we're going back to in-person meetings for quite some time. So if there's any way we
can explore a different platform, a video platform that gives us the security we need and whatever
else we need, I would really appreciate that. That's all I have.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, I don't have a hand that I can--

PAUL BALLARD: We can see your hand. Just go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I can do this, but in my screen, there's no hand to ask to speak. So that's
why I was just-- I don't know if it's-- Lynn, do you have one?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I think it might be our Mac.
LYNN GUISSINGER: A Mac thing?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, as opposed to a PC. But-PAUL BALLARD: Oh, because see, on my screen, both of you are listed as guests. Peggy and
Lynn are listed as a guest, and the rest of us are like participants. So that might have something to
do with you not having a hand.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's weird.
PAUL BALLARD: And Shelley Cook just raised her hand, too.
PEGGY CATLIN: See, I think it has to do with our computers. But I wanted to-- I wanted to say,
Vince, you took the words right out of my mouth. I think that when staff takes the time to prepare
something, and that's their area of expertise, we, out of-- just to show a sign of respect and also
show a sign of interest, we need to allow them to give some time to present.
Now that being said, if they prepare a 40 deck slideshow, they don't need to go through every
word, which some of them do. And so sometimes it's just best to prepare, like Angie said, an
executive summary, but perhaps even a-- just the highlights of what they're-BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, no. I think she's frozen.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Uh-oh.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Peggy? I think she's frozen.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Peggy?
LYNN GUISSINGER: She may come back in a minute.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, just to add to that, we know that the platform is not perfect, which
is why, as we move forward with the different study sessions and different types of meetings that
we have. We are going to be using Teams. We are going to be using Zoom, Zoom webinars. You
know, the problem with some of those platforms is they limit the amount of public that can be on.
There's no way to-- there's no way to mute the public without doing it individually, so there could
be interruptions that we could be experiencing.

But John and I and Roger have been looking at other venues, and we're looking at Zoom webinars
right now, which can handle more folks than the regular Zoom meetings that we have been using.
So just know that we are looking at alternatives. But in terms of the board meeting, the Broadnet
is the only application that we can put someone in a speaker queue and put them on timing. That
is not available, so unfortunately, with the three different platforms that we're using, they all have
their pros and cons, and none of them has everything that we need.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Miss McManus, I was wondering, because this last meeting
was the first time that I recall, since we've started doing these remote meetings, that we have such
terrible background noise. I mean it was like reverberation or something. And then we were being
put on audio-- or a music hold. It was really kind of interesting. But I'm wondering if at some
point, like maybe every 45 minutes, because we have a four-hour window, that maybe we take a
five-minute break or something. Would it reset, then, and then when we start speaking again as a
group, we would have another-- we would still be OK without the music hold?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We would have to take the time to re-identify everybody into the
speaker queue as we do in the beginning of the meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PAUL BALLARD: And Madam Chair, I have something else I want to say, but we still have
Melanie ahead in the queue and Shelley Cook in the queue.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry. OK. General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, thank you. So you know, I just want to reiterate, Barbara, I'm happy
to help you identify some additional tools as well. I mean I think we've all belabored this point
enough. This is just not a good tool for the roll call process. The other thing that I wanted to say, I
think that the chairs are doing a tremendous job. This is really, really challenging. You know,
Shelley and Kate the other night, I think it's really challenging to manage this volume on the
agenda.
But I would just encourage you to keep taking that leadership, that strong leadership role to really
try to manage the conversations. The discussion about the accountability $200,000-- you know,
essentially, that really-- that was something that I know you couldn't maybe have anticipated that
that was going to be such a discussion item, but really, they did approve that, like Director Broom
said. And so that really should have been more of a ministerial discussion rather than getting into
a really long discussion about the merits of that when it was already agreed to.
So I understand that you really are walking a very delicate line between balancing efficiency and
also inclusivity, but I would just encourage the chairs to just continue to really try to step in and
manage the conversation so that they don't go on needlessly, particularly on topics like that. I think
from my point of view, I'm getting concerned that we're spending a disproportionate amount of
time on things that aren't incredibly substantive and not the important issues. We're spending more
time on things that are less important.

And then the last thing I'll say is, to reiterate our open meetings requirements, I know I keep
bringing that up, but I do think when we have meetings that are going past 10 o'clock and
sometimes to midnight, there will be a public perception, if there's not already, that this board is
trying to operate in the late hours of the evening and pushing controversial items to the late hours
and having these midnight discussions.
So I just remind you of that, not that I think-- we're certainly not violating open meetings, but the
spirit of the law is that for the public to be able to listen and have these-- hear the deliberations.
And if these are happening at 11 and 12 o'clock at night, I think you're really-- you're pushing it
and opening yourself up to that criticism. So.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Cook? Second Vice-Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, Melanie. That's a good suggestion. And you're right about the
accountability committee. I should have curbed that to begin with. So I appreciate you bringing
that up, because it was-- that didn't go well. I do think that revisiting the ops and financial
committees together would be helpful. You know, by the time-- it was 9 o'clock, so it was 3 and
1/2 hours for the ops committee, and by the time we got to finance, I think we wrapped up just
after 11 o'clock.
So I kept it to less with more action items. But having both of those together in the same night, it's
just-- it's really hard, and then you've got to think that the committee meeting that's second kind of
gets short shrift, because we're all getting tired and not paying attention and stuff. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Second Vice Chair. I absolutely agree with you. What
I get really concerned about is that we have gone through so much information and listened to so
many people speaking that by the time we get to the next committee meeting, and we're really
having to delve into numbers, of all things, people are just gone. Like, they can't process anymore.
And so I really appreciated, Second Vice Chair, that you moved the other items into informational.
And I just think we need to keep a tighter lid on that. And I wonder if we need to send out some
kind of a one-pager to the chairs of the committee to-- kind of a checklist so that they know what
needs to be covered. The other part of it is that the chairs, along with the staff, determine the agenda
items. And so I think that, together, they need to take a look at it to say, well, this is going to be a
long night. What do we absolutely have to have on the docket for this week, and see if we can do
it?
Clearly, we are in unprecedented times, and the whole issue around Reimagine and the midterm
financial plan, I mean we've got some big issues on the docket that we have to deal with right now.
And so there is that. But I do think we can do a better job of saying to each other, let's keep each
other on task, and let's really do take a look at these agenda items and see what needs to be
discussed this evening and what can be put off.
So I mean those are some of the suggestions I would have. Director-- I'm going to go through the
list. Director Guissinger, what do you think?

BARBARA MCMANUS: You're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. No comments, Paul? I think all of that. I think that, yeah, let's take
another look at whether ops and finance need to be on the same night. Those are typically our two
longest committees. And this is not a discussion for now or even in the very near future, but I think
I guess I would be interested in Paul's experience with other boards. And I listened to that webinar
that Doug recommended about CEOs and boards, and it sounds like a lot of them have committees
that are not committees of the whole. And it may be that-- and it's come up before.
And I think we just sort of-- I know that, Angie, as you know, we've had a lot to deal with. And
I'm not saying let's deal with this now, but let's keep it on our radar that we may get better results,
a chance to delve into things more and really understand it if we look at least some of these
committees as not committees of the whole. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And we've been talking about the committees of the
not whole for this past year. And I do think it's a conversation that I'd like to keep going, because
I think, especially with the new general manager coming in, this would be our time to really take
maybe a look at things a little bit differently. Second Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No, just ditto all that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I agree with what you've said and what other
people have said as well. I remember Paul Ballard, in his interview, talking to us about how he
thinks we can streamline these meetings. So let's get cranking on that. And as far as a one-page
summary, you know, Angie, I think that might be something to just refresh everyone's memory
and let people know that when they monopolize the conversation, and they're being disrespectful
not only to their fellow directors, who often don't ask the questions they normally would have,
because they don't want things dragging on, but they also disrespect the time of our staff by making
them stay at these meetings until 11 o'clock at midnight before they can present their own matters.
So thanks. That's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I agree with what has been said today. I would
caution you, though, that even having the smaller committees that, when the committee brings
something forward for board action, and it's only been in a committee not of the whole, that I think
that you would be transferring the debate from the committee, for those that like to have an
audience, to the actual board meeting. So you poke something-- the balloon in here, and it pushes
that here. And I think that that may be the unintended consequence. It might be more streamlined
for committee meetings, but it could-- could really result in very long board meetings.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, and that that, historically, had been the case.

PEGGY CATLIN: Just a word of caution. I apologize. My computer screen completely went black,
and I had to reboot and relog in, so-PAUL BALLARD: Well, we can see you, and we can hear you, so yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, we can hear you.
PEGGY CATLIN: This was earlier when Barbara was talking. But I don't know if it'll happen
again. But the message bar that says, your computer is at risk, came up, and I went, oh, no kidding.
I apologize. But this has been a good discussion. I just want to remind everybody that we have-some of us have a 1:30 meeting, so if we could [AUDIO OUT].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, it's only 12:09, First Vice Chair. We have a little bit of time.
PEGGY CATLIN: I know, but we have a long agenda.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. OK. So we will do that. You know, one of the things I also
wanted to talk about was Reimagine. And at the board meeting, there was a lot of discussion about,
should we do something different? Should we wait until we get a new general manager? You
know, what should we do with Reimagine RTD? And it's really caused me some angst, and the
reason why is because the timeline is so tight.
But I'd like to have some discussion about this, because I want to make sure that we're moving
forward in the most expedient way to achieve our goals. And the goal right now is to hire a general
manager by November. But keep in mind that we also have eight board seats up for either reelection or they're termed out under, again, unprecedented times, which is that they're having a
difficult time gathering signatures, because now they cannot get them through email or
electronically or whatever.
So we have a lot of big stuff going on at the same time. But Miss McManus, could you do me the
favor of outlining the timeline on Reimagine, just so that we know the lay of that land as we move
forward?
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard. Could I have 60 seconds just to finish up
the last conversation? Director Buzek put a lot of responsibility on my shoulders when he said I
have all these ideas, so if I could-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yes, please.
PAUL BALLARD: --just have 60 seconds, and then we can move along? There are a number of
ways that we can continue to implement progress. I think number one, if after each agenda item,
we put the number of minutes that we feel it should take. Number one, we can force staff to follow
that time, and it's a guideline for the board members. I mean that-- a lot of agencies do that, and it
really, really does help. Another thing-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that-- pardon me. Does that include questions as well?

PAUL BALLARD: Yes. Yeah, I mean you can do it either way. But basically, you allocate a
certain amount of time for presentation, and then you can do a separate item that says, and Q&A.
And that gives you an idea of how you're doing as you go along. But that's not complicated to do.
The preparers of the agenda can establish times, and we can do that, and like I say, we can make
sure our staff does it, and then it becomes a guideline for the board. You just know how late you
are or if you're moving ahead.
The second issue is, as we look for a new platform to do the meetings, what some public entities
are doing is they're taking comments from the public in advance, and the board secretary or
someone simply reads the comments, because we don't respond to comments from the public.
And I would ask Melanie to make sure there's no prohibition, but why can't we just read comments
from the public? They can submit them in writing, by email, by phone, by letter, whatever they
want. And we'll read up to three minutes of their comments, so that way, it gets entered into the
public record. People can hear what they're saying.
So I would suggest that as one option, and I know others are doing that. And as we look for a new
forum, Barbara, we have an IT department, who is-- and there's some-- I think some pretty smart
people in there. I think that we should invite the IT department to work with you and Roger and
John and list together, look at different platforms that could be used. I think that, quite frankly,
you will never completely solve this problem until you solve the committee problem.
And there is a lot of baggage that comes with that, and I do understand that. But the way that
should really work-- and it will be rocky at the start-- is that the committees of four or five members
each, they debate the discussion, have the presentation, and then it comes to a consent agenda on
the board. And then individual board members can say, I'd like to take this off consent agenda. I
know people will do that a lot at the start, but over time, I think we'll get more comfortable with
it.
And then-- and those are my closing comments. And I'll point out that Director Tisdale has joined
us on the screen, too, because I know you don't have your screen up, Angie. But he is present, and
we can see him. So thank you for giving me that extra minute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, absolutely. All right, Director Buzek, is that-- does that
answer all of your thoughts there?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, it does. I am so pleased that Mr. Ballard is right on top of this. Thanks,
Paul.
PAUL BALLARD: Welcome.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale is on mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. You know, before I go on, I would like to ask if Director
Menten has anything to say.

DOUG TISDALE: Again, I just wanted to address one comment you made about electronic
signature gathering, and I'll take 30 seconds.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, could I have-- oh, I'm sorry. Could I have Director Menten
speak first, and then I'll call on you?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Are you asking for comments regarding the shortening of the meetings?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, just the-- yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: I find it in amusing conversation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: I mean I hear all the way from people are monopolizing to we should-- in
the past we've been warned that we have appearance that we've made decisions before we even get
to a meeting, because we don't have conversation. Then appearance that we have-- trying to maybe
dissuade the public from listening in, because we have late meetings. And it's a conversation we've
been having for 7 and 1/2 years by splitting finance and ops into two different nights. Is that really
going to save time?
Is staff time better spent with 10 directors calling them between Friday and Monday versus just
having a conversation on a Tuesday night? I find it all amusing. I'll leave it at that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So let me ask you this, then. What-- now that you've been there 7
and 1/2 years, in your wisdom, what would your recommendation be?
NATALIE MENTEN: I think I would want to put it down in paper. I think it might start with, one,
revising our packets, have a certain format for each different document. And if our documents
were more condensed, it may be a little easier for us to zoom through an agenda and get those full
pieces. I would probably want to put it in writing, but I've got to say, I'm not one of the ones that,
for 7 and 1/2 years, has been complaining about long meeting.
So that's my perspective that there's just some things that come up that you don't even think about
until you're in that Tuesday night meeting. And we have got such big issues that I'm really glad
that the public is able to view the difficult decisions and that we are having conversation instead
of just saying, yep, whatever you say. That sounds good. Rubber stamp it. Go on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Duly noted. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's my comment.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Oh, before I go to Director Walker, Director
Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'll be brief. Relative to electronic
signature gathering, be advised, please, that that is allowed. It is permissible. The Secretary of
State has released the final rules. The Colorado Supreme Court ruling that dealt with that issue
addressed the petitions for ballot initiatives, and that was a constitutional question. And the ballot
initiative rule, allowing electronic signature gathering, was, in fact, reversed by the Supreme Court,
whereas nonpartisan candidates are allowed to collect signatures via electronic means.
And I just wanted to clarify that, because it's the vast majority of how most of us are actually
collecting signatures at this time. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Director Tisdale, correct me if I'm not wrong. There is not a
cure period for this election for the first time, and they're due what? On July 27th?
DOUG TISDALE: That is correct. Close of business on Monday, July 27, all petitions must be in.
And there is no cure, period. So do it right, or you're out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Thank you. Director Walker, do you have any comments?
JEFF WALKER: Hi, thanks. I'm on Evans right now picking up lunch. Forgive the background
noise. Yeah, it's interesting that we spent about 45 minutes talking about how meetings are too
long. I think one of the things, my observation, having been on here about nine years, is that the
amount of stuff that the board is generating is eating up a whole lot of time, starting back from
where we decided to have that [AUDIO OUT] meeting in February for a board focused meeting,
all the work that creates for staff and for us, going back to how we create-- how we found the new
interim or temporary GM. That ate up a whole lot of time.
And the guiding principle through this COVID issue, relooking at our goals that had already been
set a year and a half ago now. That, I think, the Board generates a whole lot of busy work for
[CHIME that staff have to clean up and that we also have to do.
One of the things that, when I was chairing committees, I wouldn't mind cutting off somebody if
they drifted, if the conversation got too long. And I think you were there for part of that, Angie.
And I don't have a problem doing that, and I wouldn't mind [AUDIO OUT] took that into
consideration.
But yeah, it is an abuse of staff time and the public's time and other directors' time when somebody
is allowed to go on and on and on about whatever topic that could have been investigated before
the meeting. The size of the board could be an issue. Maybe we should have 15 members. There's
tons of things that go into this.
But those are some of my early thoughts on why we [AUDIO OUT]. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, I would just like to talk a little bit about the
conversation that happened on Tuesday night about Reimagine. And Director Guissinger, I'm
going to have you talk a little bit, because you brought up a lot of points on that meeting. And I
just wanted to know-- I know you had a Reimagine meeting this morning. What are you thinking
now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, we did have a Reimagine meeting this morning, so I'd have to
remember what points I raised the other night. One question I have-- and Paul may be able to help
with this-- I raised it briefly in the meeting today, but at this point, at least as the board, we don't
know-- I don't personally know what's working and what isn't working with the pandemic plan.
And we've moved the initial SOP phase one from middle 2021 up to January of 2021, which does
put a lot of work in the short term. We've got a new GM.
And I guess I'm wondering what we're trying to solve by doing that. Are we trying to cut more?
Are we trying to-- I guess I'm not sure. You know, we've got a pandemic plan. Until we see the
data of that, what is this new plan going to fix for us? And you may not be wanting to answer that.
Whatever, but.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, I mean very briefly, because I mean I was not a part of the meeting, so
I'm not privy to the most recent discussion. But I think in general, this is a reaction to the fact that
we have a significant financial hole in 2021. Said number is still to be determined, and that there's
a feeling on behalf of the management team that we have to have a good plan for you to be able to
deal with whatever that number is for the shortfall.
The other point, I think-- and I don't know if this was discussed-- is that I really do see the task
force and the Reimagine process now working very closely together so that it's a combined effort
to make sure that what's being represented is what we need to do to prepare for '21. So I see Peggy
Catlin is raising her hand, Madam Chair, so.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Dr. Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, and thank you, Paul. I have to-- I have to say that this COVID-19
effort, where they had to shift some of their focus, the Reimagine team, was in large part due to a
number of board members saying, this has to change. Things have changed. We're in a different
circumstance now, and we cannot proceed with the Reimagine plan as if nothing has changed.
And so it's partly in response to some board pressure. And it's really hard. We had the meeting this
morning, and there are still some of the advisory committee people who were business as usual,
and others are wanting to really take this as an opportunity to try and create a plan that is
streamlined when the COVID-19 plan's up.
Director Guissinger, I don't know what the answer is, but I believe that they have really tried to
respond to some of the direction from the board. And Director Guissinger would like to respond,
but she and I do not have a handraise, so you'll have to put that on. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to be clear, my concern is just moving something in in January. And
maybe staff is-- I think Jeff Becker is working on this. But as a board, we haven't seen the data of
how it's working now.
And so for instance, today, they came up with a rail plan that I think is for the January run board
that they said is 30%-- 29% saved-- 29% train hours over pre-COVID. But I'm not sure if that's
more or less than what we're doing now. Is that going to save us more money? Is that going to save
us less money?
I guess January might be the right time, but I guess I'd like to see what we're-- why we need to
change it that quickly, if the pandemic plan-- and I'm not saying we shouldn't. I'm just saying, is
the pandemic plan working? What pieces are working? And what are we changing? Is it making it
better? And I don't feel like I've seen that yet, so.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, got it. Got it. You know, one of the things that I keep thinking
about, and I can't help but think about it all night long, is, are we going to get our second resurgence
of this COVID-19? And it kind of looks like we're heading in that route, and so what does that do
with our Reimagine program? Does our team then keep reevaluating it, and then changing it
accordingly to what's happening and how to move forward with it? And I don't know what the
answer to that is.
I can tell you this. We have a lot of work to do, and we-- and I mean we as the staff and then the
board-- we're going to have to continue to try to minimize the impact. And I mean that's all I know
what to say today. Mr. Ballard, what do you think?
PAUL BALLARD: You know, I really wish I had a lot more answers. I will tell you that Bruce
Abel and I are-- this month, we're putting together the best information we have, and we would
like to do, basically, two on twos with the board members and just sit down with you by Zoom, in
person, and tell you exactly where we are and where we're trying to go.
And I understand, Lynn, your concerns. It's just that the data, the situation, everything is in flux
all the time. And it makes this very hard-- makes it very hard to come up with a specific plan. We
will have a plan, and we will have alternatives. There are, I mean-- so we're trying to be prepared
for January. If things start to look a little bit better, we make some changes in January. We still
have the option of making changes in May, which will still give us the option of having those
savings for 7/12 of 2021. So I think we're preserving those options.
You know, in a briefing this morning, I likened it to value engineering on a construction project.
You know, we're going to develop a Reimagine and the level of service along with the work that
the task force is doing, and we're going to size it to our best estimate as to where is the amount of
money we'll have. A then as numbers get sharper and things come into focus, we can reverse value
engineering in what we're presenting to you.
I don't know of a better way to put it. I mean we're an uncharted territory, but we're going to have
the best possible available information for the board members to make decisions. And we're going
to frame those decisions the best we absolutely can as quickly as we can, but with thought, but

with lots of escape points down the road, if that helps at all. And Madam Chair, Shelley Cook has
her hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, I was going to call on her next.
PAUL BALLARD: OK, good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. So two things on the Reimagine. The-- so one piece that I know
I'd been urging in response to Peggy Catlin's remarks, as I'm not just changing the assumption and
so forth, but moving that second part up, because as Paul had mentioned the task force in the
Reimagine are jointly working I mean, they really are taking bites of the same pie.
And so to the extent that some of those that the alternative approaches, et cetera, can be brought
to the fore now rather than in a year or two, I really think that benefits where we are facing, where
we are and what we're facing in the 2021 and 2022 budgets, for example.
And then the second thing is I wanted to ask Paul, because this question of a new GM, who's taking
the reins at a time when we've got these huge challenges, obviously, some changes just have to be
made. They're being forced upon us, but we'd already initiated the Reimagine process.
What's your thought about that person and coming into a role where we've just decided what we're
going to do, if we pick a particular SOP, for example? So I just wanted to get your thoughts,
because it was a question that was raised. That's why I brought it up in the meeting. But I don't
have a strong feeling either way. It just seems like we ought to think about it.
So Paul what's your thought? Imagine your coming in, then, taking the reins permanently. Would
you have preferred the decisions to be delayed a couple months or what?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, you know, having done this for a long time and have gone into a number
of locations, there's never a good time. There is always something that's up in the air. And quite
frankly, for me, when I've gone into other transit systems, I think the work that the board and the
staff has done that's implemented, it has given me a basis upon which to judge where we should
go.
I think it's a version of, it's better to make a decision and put us on a path than not make a decision
and not have a path forward. So I would not, quite frankly, be concerned with that. I think you've
got-- there'll be continuity with the majority of the board. There'll be continuity with the majority
of the staff. I think whoever comes in would appreciate the groundwork that has been laid, quite
frankly. That's the way I would see it, and I would appreciate some decisions being made upon
which I could then build.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, well, thanks. That's all, Madam Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Does anyone else have their hand up? I can't see you.
Do you see anybody, Mr. Ballard?
MELANIE SNYDER: I don't. I don't see-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PAUL BALLARD: No, everybody's got their hands down.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right, so I don't have anything else on this agenda other
than, does anyone else have something to bring forward to this executive committee?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just have a quick question. I just read the Colorado Politics article about
our facility that was not taking temperatures. Is that going to come up at other facilities? Is that
throughout the-- did we just not understand that?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, you know, I've had a couple of conversations with Mike Meader, and
he's been-- his understanding has been all along that that's not a requirement of ours, that there
were substitutes. He's getting to the bottom of that. I've told him-- I said, we need to know precisely
who's giving you these instructions by name and rank, and then we'll sort it out. There is some
question.
What we're hearing is that we're getting commendations for having a good process in our facilities,
so the information-- something is garbled, and I don't know what that is. But we are going to work.
We're going to get to the bottom of it. We'll know precisely who's giving instructions and precisely
what those instructions are. And I'm sorry I don't have that yet, but we are working, as we speak,
to determine precisely what it is we're supposed to do.
Lots of people have lots of opinions, but we just want to get the facts and know who's telling us
what to do. So I'll let you know when I find out. So we're working on it every hour. We're trying
to determine that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Miss McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to bring up to this group that we are working with CDOT.
We usually have a collaboration dinner with the board and CDOT. This year is our year to sponsor,
and, of course, no one is having any meetings out. So we're probably going to be putting together
some sort of a Zoom meeting with an agenda that will ask board members and the folks from
CDOT what subjects they want to discuss and just have it as a meeting, just so the lines of
communication stay open with that group.
And then we're also tentatively planning the incoming and outgoing board of directors dinner,
which usually happens in December. We don't know if it will happen, but we are looking at some
larger facilities, maybe doing-- maybe just doing the outgoing and the incoming and eliminating

the spouses this time around just because of the numbers, doing some sort of a hors oeuvres type
thing, where there's a bunch of high tops for people to huddle around with a microphone on each
one of them so that we can still converse.
It's usually just an introduction, but some thoughts from this group would be helpful. You know,
my staff and I will move forward in doing whatever we can do as we move forward towards that
time with the new directors coming aboard. So I just wanted to just open the discussion and get
that thought put out there for now with any ideas. Then just let us know, and we'll try to run with
them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, wow. I mean wow. Yeah, there's just so much that is so
different that we have to think outside of the box and not know what's actually going to be there.
OK, thank you. The last thing, then, that I want to bring up is that Director Guissinger and myself
did an official request to Jenifer Brandeberry to ask if the governor could publicly ask the
community to wear masks on public transit. And so we're hoping that he'll do it.
I think he has a COVID update today, and we're hoping that he'll do it there. But it has been given
to Senator Winter, Representative Gray, and the governor's office to move forward. So I just
wanted to let you know that as well, because that was a discussion that we had at the board meeting
on Tuesday night. OK, one more time, anything else to come before this executive committee?
OK, hearing none. Have a great day. We are adjourned.
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 12:36 p.m.
PAUL BALLARD: Thanks. See you, bye.
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: Bye.

