2022-04-26
Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: --recording. Now. I will now call the Tuesday, April 26 RTD Board meeting to order. We
are convened as of 5:34 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you're recognized
to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in interest of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings of
the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's
YouTube page.
Colleagues, being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to
enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it is our collective
duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual
respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are values we can all agree upon. As such, I
encourage each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board and to act in accordance
with those principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website. Thank you.
Director Cook, you will now lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. If you would all join in the Pledge of Allegiance.
IN UNISON: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic FOR which
it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
VINCE BUZEK: Next time, we'll get a metronome. We were kind of slow on that one. But thank you,
Director Cook.
Next is the land acknowledgment. I'm going to request that Director Rivera-Malpiede please read out loud
the land acknowledgment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the
land on which our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and
other contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our indigenous elders
who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations.
May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the native and all historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future
contributions in the District as we move forward.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for that, Director Rivera-Malpiede. Ms. McManus, would you please call the
roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Buzek. Director Catlin. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVER-MALPIEDE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 13 accounted for. We have a quorum.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. And Directors Catlin and Dishell both notified me of their absence in advance
and I will record those as excused absences. With 13 present and 2 absent, we have a quorum.
There are no retiree awards for this evening. Second quarter retiree awards will be announced at the
June Board of Directors meeting.
Next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board.
Those who would like to address the Board but are unable to attend Board meetings can submit their
comments in writing at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Barbara, were there any email comments received for this meeting? You're on mute.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, there were.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. So those email comments, I believe, were sent to all the Board members and
will be added to the record of this meeting.
We'll move on from there. If anyone is present and wishes to speak and you've not already done so,
please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to
speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have up to three minutes to speak.
Ms. McManus, do we have any speakers in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. We have M. Scott Ramming, PhD, PE in the queue. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Mr. Ramming, please state your name and let us hear your comments, please.
And Mr. Ramming, we're not hearing you.

M. SCOTT RAMMING: I was apparently just unmuted.
VINCE BUZEK: There you go.
M. SCOTT RAMMING: This is Dr. Michael Scott Ramming. I live near the 30th and Downing and 30th and
Blake stations on the East side. For those Directors who aren't that active on Twitter, you might be
interested in knowing that there was a thread where one of the local reporters was passing through the
Union Station, had taken an RTD train in, and wished to use the restroom in what's the Crawford Hotel
lobby, and was told by the security guard that RTD passengers are not permitted to do so unless they
make a purchase or are hotel guests.
And I believe I've been told similar information from the telephone information center, that the 99-year
lease, or whatever the term is, to the Crawford Hotel does not allow, or does not require them to permit
RTD passengers access to the restrooms. And I think that was unconscionable when it was agreed. It's
unconscionable now. For a place that calls itself Denver's living room, if members of the Denver family, to
extend the metaphor beyond recognition, are not permitted within the living room, it doesn't really seem a
good metaphor.
So I would urge RTD to do whatever it can to allow its passengers, from the people who ride the Flatiron
Flyer to those who ride local buses, to have some facilities at Union Station. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for your comments, Dr. Ramming. Are there any more speakers, Ms.
McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, there's no other speakers in the queue.
VINCE BUZEK: With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public participation period at this
time.
Next are the external entities reports. The Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee, APAC, does
not have an update this month but is likely to present a report at the May 24 Board meeting. We look
forward to hearing from Mr. Elam during his next report.
The Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, ACPD, will be presented by Mr. Jamie Lewis. Mr.
Lewis, please start when you're ready.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Buzek? Mr. Lewis Is not here this evening because the report was given two
weeks ago and there was nothing new to add. So he asked to be excused. And he will report on the next
meeting, which happens in the middle of May.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, May 24. Perfect. That's great. Thanks for that information, Director Williams.
The Citizens Advisory Committee, CAC, will be presented by Mr. Matt Appelbaum. Mr. Appelbaum, if you
are here, please introduce your report.

MATT APPELBAUM: Yeah, hi. Thanks very much. This will be quick. We did have a meeting last week.
We actually did it in person. It was offsite. And people, of course, could Zoom in as well. It was very nice
to meet some of our new members. And I knew we're going to be getting some additional new members
shortly that you'll be appointing, and we hope to meet with them in person as well. It was also really nice
to meet our new staff liaison, Brandon Figiolino, who was nice enough to join us at the meeting.
Just quickly, our meeting was, since we met mostly in person, was really about what the role of the CAC
is and how to make it work better. So we talked about how to better provide input to you on the Board,
how we can discuss issues in a timely manner, which is difficult, that we get them soon enough that we
can actually have a conversation, come up with some ideas and present them to you before your meeting
on the same issue, how we can remain engaged in a number of key long-term issues, like Reimagine and
the fare study, and how we can have more in-depth conversations with the staff.
I wouldn't say we solved all those problems, but it was a good conversation. And you will soon be hearing
from each of us. As I think you know, we're going to restart the two-on-one meetings, two members of the
CAC with a member of the Board. And those have been scheduled, I think, starting next week and then
through May and maybe early June. And our members will be talking to each of you about very much the
same issues. How can the CAC serve you better? How can we get input to you? How can we stay
abreast of what's going on? We would love your thoughts on that and try to figure out how to do a better
job in the coming year.
And that's really the report. Thanks very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Matt. Thanks for that report. And I have my two-on-one tomorrow. So looking
forward to that.
MATT APPELBAUM: Yes, you do with-VINCE BUZEK: Yes, I do. I'll see you then.
MATT APPELBAUM: Looking forward to seeing you. And thanks to all of you so much for taking the time
to meet with us. We really do appreciate it.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And Directors, make sure, if you haven't already, to get those scheduled. They're
very productive. Thanks for that report.
Next, we're going to move on to the audit ad hoc-- and we're going to notice Director Dishell is present.
So we have 14 present, 1 absent at this point. Directors Davidson and Dishell, do you have anything
you'd like to report?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll keep this brief, in Director Caitlin's absence, who is chairing
the committee. We have been making progress. I believe we will have a forthcoming discussion item that
has been postponed to a future Board meeting when Director Catlin will be here to more fully update the

Board on our progress. We are in the stages of procurement for retaining contracted services for the
internal audit function.
Additionally, our committee has compiled open questions for further research that our committee has
regarding the formation of a long-term standing ad hoc committee-- I'm sorry, audit committee, which,
again, we will update the Board on once we've retained the services of a contractor.
Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you for that report, and thanks for the work on that important committee.
Next, we're going to move on to the TABOR ad hoc committee report. Directors Cook and Broom, do you
have anything you'd like to report this evening?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I'll start off. If Director Broom would like to add anything, I invite him to do that.
We had our first meeting, an informational session, basically, on April 11, with discussion of finances and
TABOR presented by Doug MacLeod, our CFO. And there were really good questions and some points
made as to our charge, what our timeline should be, the communications plan and whether and how we
might consider or recommend regarding other potential elements of a ballot issue. I think it helped to
frame some of the work that we need to do going forward.
One of the questions was whether we are only one of a few or are we one of many other entities within
our district, or in the state, who have not de-Bruced yet. And actually, Director Tisdale pulled up some
interesting stats. So I thought I'd recount those. He noted that 174 of 178 school districts have de-Bruced,
85% of municipalities, and 51 of 64 counties. So it sounds like it's been pretty prevalent, and we can hope
that that points the way for us.
Our next meeting is Monday, May 9 at 3:00 PM. And that will be a continuation of financial aspects of the
TABOR issue and of de-Brucing. Mr. Broom? Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: I think that was fairly comprehensive report. We still got a lot of work in front of us, and
we're still in the information collecting phase. So if anybody has any ideas or thoughts, please contact us.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that report. And those statistics seem like those should be front and
center in any campaign that may come down the road, because that's pretty telling. So good deal.
Thanks.
Next is the Finance and Planning Committee report. Committee Chair Davidson, do you have anything
you'd like to report?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
At our Board retreat, we did discuss the importance of the committee chairs providing a more
comprehensive update, now that we no longer have committees of the whole. So I will try to be a little bit

more comprehensive this evening. Certainly, I invite my colleagues to provide me with any feedback as to
how I can improve this, particularly for the non-committee members who may not have been in
attendance.
On the April 12 meeting, we started by receiving a presentation and report on the updated sales and use
tax forecasts from CU Leeds School of Business. The March 2022 model that they presented reflected a
projected improvement from our current mid-term financial plan forecast for the sales and use tax
representing a 3.9% increase. There was some discussion regarding whether and how inflation could
offset some of that increase and impact our mid-term financial plan more adversely. And CFO Doug
MacLeod confirmed that we can change and will change our inflation variable when it comes to
expenditure decision making within the existing mid-term financial plan.
We then moved on to recommended actions. The committee voted unanimously on the recommended
action to approve a budget transfer of $6 million from the unrestricted fund balance to the light rail
maintenance of way for coping panel repairs and to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her
designee, to enter into a contract to complete the repairs. That recommended action is on the agenda this
evening.
As a discussion item, the committee received an update regarding the Colorado 119 BRT
implementation. We confirmed in the discussion that ensued after the update that RTD does remain
committed to contributing the $33 million that have been allocated regardless of the result of the RAISE
grant application submitted by our partners. This is because the project, as stated by staff, can be phased
and is also modular.
For the benefit of those that were not there at the update, from a financial perspective, the funding that
RTD has committed is going towards stations, Park-n-Rides, and enhanced bus stops. In addition, RTD is
collaborating with CDOT as a partner to determine what the funding needs are for queue bypass lanes,
which we had some discussion that can increase the travel time by as much as 50% in the maximum
congested times, according to some of the current models.
As an additional discussion item, we received information regarding the financial impact to provide farefree transit on general election days. The approximate cost was reported by General Manager and CEO
Johnson as $357,000, including expenses for fare replacement, light rail, law enforcement and security,
and marketing. We then had a discussion. During the discussion, that was highlighted by Director
Bouquet and General Manager and CEO Johnson that many US transit agencies have implemented farefree transit on election days, providing some precedent.
CEO and General Manager Johnson also highlighted the statistic that was included in the Board packet
from the 2016 survey of the performance of American elections by MIT that stated that approximately
30% of non-voters across the country claimed that lack of transportation is a factor in deciding not to vote.
The committee had a robust discussion about whether or not it would be favorable to proceeding with a
recommended action at a future date to provide fare-free transit on election days.

The committee raised various concerns and questions as to whether fare-free transit on election days
would help in a state that does do mail-in ballots. Numerous Directors suggested that we should and
could engage with the Secretary of State and the county clerks to determine whether this might be an
effective strategy, but also to engage with them to cooperate on any potential program, should we
implement one.
We discussed the possibility of doing this for a single year and floated the idea of a pilot, which was
something General Manager and CEO Johnson stated she had prior experience in initiating and
shepherding. The committee was generally favorable towards the idea of a staff-led recommended action,
provided that it included some level of staff engagement with Secretary of State and/or county clerk.
General Manager and CEO Johnson and her staff will leverage the feedback and have the next steps to
bring back a proposal for next steps to the Board.
During other matters, Director Broom inquired whether there were any updates regarding pending
litigation with the Denver Transit Partners. General Counsel Melanie Snyder informed the committee that
there are no updates at this time.
Also, during other matters, Director Dishell inquired whether staff has what it needs to move forward with
the refinancing of the 2013 and '14 certificates of participation, or COPS, in a timely fashion, especially
considering potential increases to interest rates. General Manager and CEO Johnson, as well as Chief
Financial Officer Doug MacLeod, confirmed that they have what they need and committed to bring a
recommended action to the committee in the June time frame.
And just a note for my colleagues here, that we did since receive follow up from bond counsel with
regards to the refinancing decision as to whether or not to leverage the FasTracks bonding authority.
Thank you, Mr. Chair. That concludes my report. The next Finance and Planning Committee meeting will
be on May 10, 2022. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that report.
Next is the Operations and Safety Committee report. Committee Chair Rosenthal, do you have anything
you'd like to report?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm afraid I do not have anything to report because our April
13 meeting was canceled. So that's all I have at this time.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that.
Next is our Performance Committee report. Committee Chair Lewis, do you have anything you'd like to
report?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just have a few updates here.

So as you all know, our 2021 through our 2026 strategic plan is a fundamental shift to reframing the value
of transit in terms of outcomes. RTD will really focus our resources and our energies on community value,
customer excellence, employee ownership, and financial success. This plan, which I'm pretty excited
about, really creates a singular focus for us and vision as we move forward.
While the Performance Committee hasn't had any meetings thus far, I just want to let you all know that
the work to implement the strategic plan has begun, including, and not limited to-- I have a more
exhaustive list-- the refinement of metrics, objectives, and goals, as well as individual metrics with
baseline data have gone through a [INAUDIBLE] analysis, which I think [AUDIO OUT] efforts to elections
from our Reimagine RTD to the strategic plan, which I think is important.
Our General Manager also shared with me something that I thought was pretty exciting, was an
opportunity to join eight other transit agencies as early adopters on TransDASH, which is a tool for
measuring and communicating the value of transit at a national level, which allows us to have peer
comparison and provides a quarterly dashboard on the metrics. And I know Board Directors are often
asking about those peers. And so this is an opportunity to do so. The dashboards would include climate,
health, volume, congestion, community relevance, quality, productivity, access, and economic impact.
And so there are a few next steps that are in place. But I think the main one-- and many of the members
of that committee should have been surveyed for the times and dates that you're able to meet-- we will
begin receiving progress updates in the Performance Committee beginning in June 2022, with following
meetings in September 2022 and another in January 2023.
That concludes my report, Mr. Chair. I'm happy to answer any questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for the report. Yeah, I know. So, anybody have any questions for Director
Lewis for her report? Thanks for that report.
Great. We're going to move on then to the approval of the Board meeting minutes and committee reports.
The Board and committee minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from any
Director? Unless there's an objection, I'm going to consider the minutes for the following meetings in a
motion. March 22 Board meeting, April 12 special Board meeting, April 12 Finance and Planning
Committee, April 21 Executive Committee. And do I have a motion for approval of those minutes?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: I heard Director Broom as the movant and Director Whitmore as the second. Any
discussion on this motion? Seeing none, are there any objections, any no votes to this motion? And
seeing none, that passes unanimously, 14 to zero.
Next is the Chair's report. Just a few things to report on. There was a groundbreaking for the 16th Street
Mall project that took place a couple of weeks ago. Director Dishell was with me, on the 14th of April.

Directed Dishell and I were present, as well as a number of members of senior leadership team. Senior
Manager Fred Worthen gave comments and remarks on behalf of RTD and did a fantastic job, Mr.
Worthen.
At our Executive Committee meeting, we had a report, our monthly Government Relations report from
Mike Davies. You all get the monthly update on bill tracking, which I think is pretty invaluable and keep
abreast of all that. Under Other Matters, we talked about the reinstatement of travel budgets for Directors.
And at the May 10 Finance meeting, I'll be introducing a recommended action to reinstate travel budgets
for Directors for the latter half of this year.
We also talked about post-COVID meeting expectations. There's been some email communication back
and forth from the General Manager's office and some other Directors. In a nutshell, our meetings of the
Board are unlikely to resume any time before the fall of this year, if then. It's primarily due to IT work that
is taking place in the RT and D boardroom. So that's underway and not ready for us to be there.
We also had discussions about the possibility of some of the smaller committees to have their meetings in
person and what that might look like. I've asked Ms. McManus to put together a list of items that are
important for us all to consider, if that happens and run that past our General Counsel to make sure we're
compliant with Open Meetings laws and so forth, and also to look at the impact on staff and staffing
meetings like that. We're also having ongoing discussions of small informal meetings of three or more
Directors and how we can make those happen and be compliant with the Open Meetings Law. So that
discussion continues.
Finally, we talked about the Board retreat and the summary that we've all obtained from CDR Associates.
At the May Executive Committee meeting, I intend to have put together a list of items submitted by
Executive Committee members, and I invite any other Board member to submit a similar list regarding
what items came out of our retreat that are operational or administrative in nature that need to be put in
some kind of context and what are those that are going to require bylaw change.
So at the May meeting, I hope to have that list put together, and hopefully by the June Executive
Committee meeting have it on our Executive Committee agenda as an action item to come out for a full
Board vote with regard to any bylaw changes that are required for the action items that we've discussed
at the Board retreat.
At this point, if there are no questions for me-- if there are, I'll take them now. Seeing none, I'm going to
give Director Rivera-Malpiede a couple of minutes of time to discuss and follow up regarding an email
that she sent out earlier. Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You all received an email this afternoon from the
Chair and me regarding the resolution on the regional commitment to ensuring a welcome transit
environment. We have outlined-- and actually, for really great, I had a meeting with our General Manager,
Mr. Ford, Mr. Davies, and Christina Zazuetta to start working on an outreach plan.

I outlined it for all of you and I will be calling each of you to see how you would like to proceed. I am ready
to start setting up tours and briefings for every Board member, if they would like them. So I'll be giving you
all a call. And I'll be hanging out at Union Station for a really long time. So if you have any questions, let
me know. But I will be calling you.
And if you have folks that you want to invite to be briefed with you, we are happy to put in that work on
your behalf or in collaboration with you, or however you want to do that. And if not, that's OK too. Happy
to do it at Union Station, at RTD, by Zoom. We really want this platform to be very comforting to every
Board member so that they're able to get the information.
I also would just like to remind everybody that last Friday, Tina Jaquez sent out an email to all of us with
the new website, Restoring a Welcoming Environment. If you haven't had a chance to see it, it's really
quite extraordinary. It is a fluid document, so it will be updated on a regular kind of plan. But one of the
things that I really like about this is that there's an entire community engagement component, where
people can sign up for newsletters to be updated on a regular basis, as well as for feedback or questions,
so that we're able to do real time information for community members as we move forward.
So that's my report for now, Mr. Chair. I'm happy to take any questions, or I could just call everybody.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Any question for Director Rivera-Malpiede? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I actually don't have a question. I just have a comment, if that's OK with you, Mr.
Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Please, go ahead.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: You're shaking-- OK. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I couldn't get-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: That's OK. Director Dishell and I had the opportunity to visit Lisa at the Harm
Reduction Center. So the Harm Reduction Center, for Directors that are not familiar, is a place that really
promotes public health by ensuring that people who inject drugs are educated and equipped with the
tools to reduce the spread of diseases, such as HIV, hepatitis C, and to really eliminate the overdoses.
And I know you all, we've been talking quite a bit about fentanyl.
Lisa has been generous in inviting each of us to tour her facility. For those who have had the opportunity
to tour, I learned quite a lot about-- a lot, just quite frankly, a lot of things that I hadn't known. And so Lisa
has agreed to offer for Directors to also tour her facility. She typically does it in early mornings or in the
afternoon after 4 o'clock. And so I'm happy to connect you all. Director Guissinger is also going to be
touring the facility, and I hope she learns just as much as I did. And so extending that opportunity to
Directors.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that, Director Lewis. So anybody that is interested, please reach out to
Director Lewis. Is that OK? I'm giving you that job. OK.

First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to say that Director Lewis made that connection with Lisa for me today, and
she's asked me to come up with sometimes in the next couple of weeks. So, if anybody's interested, we
could join forces, potentially, and go over there. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. Thanks for that.
General Manager and CEO Johnson, the time has come for your report.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair, and good evening to all of you. And I do want to say
I'm excited to hear that some of you are going to the Harm Reduction Center, as many or you know that
I've had the opportunity to engage with the Executive Director Lisa Raville at the Harm Reduction Center,
and I've spoken to several of you and trust and believe it will be an eye opening experience. It'll enable
you to lean in and understand and be more empathetic as relates to all the issues that are prevalent and
why oftentimes people view individuals in that space as being service resistant. It's a lot more to that.
And so I welcome the opportunity to engage with you and hear your thoughts after you have the
opportunity, if you elect to do so. So thank you very much for that, Director Lewis and Director Guissinger,
as well as Mr. Chair and Director Rivera-Malpiede, for engaging and coordinating these events, and want
you all to know that staff is readily available to help support any type of connections in which you've made
and need to hand off to staff to help facilitate. So look forward to hearing about all of that.
So with that, as introduced, I'm Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO here at the Regional
Transportation District. And in addition to the subject matter we just talked about, I will also provide
information with you centered around our strategic priorities. And as relates to community value, I will be
discussing RTD's participation in the Federal Transit Administration Sustainable Transit for a Healthy
Planet Challenge. Additionally, I'll speak about the Transit Vehicle Innovation Deployment Centers
meeting that I participated in this past week in Atlanta and my participation in recent speaking
engagements on behalf of the agency.
As it relates to customer excellence, I will share information regarding our continuing efforts at Denver
Union Station, which you have heard a little bit about this evening. And then closing out relating to
employee ownership, I will touch upon the agency's ongoing COVID-19 pandemic responses.
So as I had mentioned during the meeting last month, in March, and in a email yesterday addressed to all
of you, RTD is participating in the Federal Transit Administration Sustainable Transit for a Healthy Planet
Challenge. Our response to this voluntary challenge directly aligns with elements of the strategic plan, in
particular the strategic priority of community value, which states that RTD strives to be a community
partner providing value to customers, as well as to the Denver Metro region while sustaining planet Earth.
I'm happy to share that the agency has completed its climate action plan and submitted the report to FTA
on April 15. The plan describes current efforts among RTD and state policymakers regarding greenhouse
gas reduction initiatives. And further, the plan illustrates RTD's emission reduction goals and targets in

three key areas, namely, increasing transit use and the reduction of single occupant vehicle trips,
decreasing carbon dioxide emissions resulting from fleet, fuel, and facilities, and using an agency-wide
approach to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increasing sustainability.
Last Thursday-- that's why I wasn't in attendance at the Executive Committee-- I was invited by the
Center for Transportation and the Environment, on behalf of the Federal Transit Administration, to
participate as a member of an advisory panel. And the purpose of the meeting was to discuss research
conducted by the Federal Transit Administration regarding transit vehicle innovation deployment. The
program is funded by FTA to research the advancement, production, and deployment of advanced
vehicle technologies and infrastructure within the public transportation sector.
The program, managed by the Center for Transportation and the Environment and CALSTART, which is
a national nonprofit accelerating clean transportation technologies, assembled the panel to meet and
develop suggested solutions to the challenges of continued innovation, deployment, and adoption of zero
emission transit technologies. The participants also discussed the need for workforce development. And
workforce in and of itself is people power, leadership, and technology development and training, and a
requirement of federal low-- well, we call it low no, so it's low and zero emission bus funding opportunities.
So the meeting was moderated by CTE. In addition to me, other participants included transit leaders for
MARTA, which is, of course, in Atlanta, the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority, LA Metro,
Mountain Line transit in Missoula, Montana, CapMetro in Austin, Texas. In addition to these leaders from
the agencies, there were zero emission bus manufacturers, researchers from Penn State, the Ohio State
University, as well as Auburn. There was union representatives from Amalgamated Transit Union, as well
as Transport Workers Union, reps from the Department of Energy, FTA's Division of Research,
Innovation, and Demonstration, and the National Transit Institute, and the Transportation Learning
Center. So CTE will provide a similar report to the Federal Transit Administration by the latter part of next
month.
Additionally, over the past month, as the state and the nation have begun to reopen and industry and
community groups have resumed in-person activities, I have been able to take part in several speaking
engagements here in the Denver Metro area. On Wednesday, April 6, I attended a Metro Mayors Caucus
meeting and participated in a panel discussion with Doug Rex from the Denver Regional Council of
Governments and Shoshana Lew, the Executive Director of CDOT, to discuss Metro mobility and air
quality changes, or changes as well as challenges.
During the course of my discussion, I talked about our strat plan, our labor environment, and the recently
ratified and adopted by you all collective bargaining agreement with ATU 1001, budgetary considerations,
and our collaborative efforts to improve air quality, which includes, of course, our plan for additional zero
emission buses and a fare-free transit demonstration program.
From April 9 through the 11, the American Public Transportation Association CEO seminar was held here
in Denver. And more than 100 chief executive leaders and deputies from transit agencies across the
country came to participate and engage in thoughtful dialogue. During the seminar, I, along with Denver

Mayor Michael Hancock, the CEOs from Monterey-Salinas Transit, and the Northern California and
Central Ohio Transit Authority, and the Maryland Transit Administration, we participated in a session
moderated by the CEO of SEPTA, which is the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority in
and around greater Philadelphia, to discuss a post-pandemic future.
The core of the discussion really was about transit with respect to health, equity, and the vitality of
communities served, as well as fundamental changes that have taken place and whether those changes
have impacted their overall need for and delivery of public transit services.
I also participated in an important two-part session entitled, Protecting the Emotional and Mental Health of
the CEO, in which panelists shared personal reflections regarding the impacts of stress and isolation on
CEO performance, as well as physical and mental health. This session offered an opportunity for CEOs to
share their approaches for decompressing, venting, and managing the stress and pressures associated
with leading a transit agency, along with the need for finding mental health and emotional health supports.
The panel was moderated by Dr. Blaise Aguirre. He's the medical director at the McLean Hospital in
Boston and Assistant Professor of Psychiatry at the Harvard Medical School. Along with the moderation
of Dr. Aguirre, there was the GM/CEO of Santa Clara Valley Transit Authority. And it was important to
hear from her recognizing the unfortunate circumstance that took place in VTA, May of last year, where
there was the mass shooting. And additionally, there was the CEO of the Port Authority of Allegheny,
which is Greater Pittsburgh.
Additionally, I engaged in a separate session regarding zero emission buses and the implementation and
related infrastructure needed, the lessons learned, and the working relationships with utility providers and
bus manufacturers. The panel was moderated by the CEO of CapMetro in Austin, Texas, and I was
joined by colleagues from King County Metro in Seattle and South Coast British Columbia Transportation
Authority in Westminster, British Columbia.
On Monday, April 18, I served as the keynote speaker at the annual meeting of the Lower Downtown
Neighborhood Association, which is a city registered neighborhood association representing residents in
Denver's LoDo area. Interim police Chief Steve Martingano accompanied me to the meeting, and the
main topic of discussion during this engagement was the unwelcome activities plaguing the Denver Metro
area. I shared with the LoDo Association the enhancements taking place in and around Denver Union
Station, the bus concourse. And we all agreed that we anticipate it to have a positive ripple effect
throughout the transit system.
And speaking of those enhancements, Director Malpiede referenced this during the course of her
comments, but we launched the web page describing the improvements. I sent an email to all of you on
Friday. And in turn, you probably received a copy of the press advisory as well. And we have shared this
through a myriad of public media outlets. For those interested, the link to the web page can be found by
visiting the News Stop page on RTD's main website.
The web page is dynamic and will be updated as progress is made regarding the short- mid-term, and
long-term project milestones, which will eventually culminate with the establishment of a paid fare area.

Thus far, since Friday, April 22, the web page has garnered 380 views from 213 unique users. Further,
there have been 9,997 social media impressions, and that was as of about 2 o'clock today-- so let me just
put that in perspective for you all-- with an additional 788 engagements, meaning that individuals have
viewed information regarding DUS efforts nearly 10,000 times in the past few days and have shared or
reacted to RTD's posts on this topic nearly 800 times.
Yesterday, our Public Relations team reached out to all the transportation management organizations and
associations, as well as the public information officers for the municipalities within the Regional
Transportation District and requested that they share the web page on their respective communication
channels. Staff will again promote the web page through social media channels tomorrow, Wednesday,
April 27, and will also have it shared via the May issue of the Read and Ride publication.
As for complementary efforts underway to address unwanted activities throughout the Denver Metro area,
RTD is partnering with municipalities in the area-- in the region, I should say-- to creatively provide
supplemental services to individuals in need through the provision of wellness clinics, legal assistance,
and mobile showers adjacent to transit facilities.
Now I'll transition to employee ownership. As all of you are aware, last Monday, on the 18th, a US district
court ordered vacating the federal facial covering mandate for public transportation and transportation
hubs. That same day, the Transportation Security Administration stated that facial covering requirements
would no longer be enforced. As a result, last Tuesday, RTD discontinued its own mask enforcement
protocols aboard revenue and non-revenue vehicles and in our administrative offices and transit and
operation facilities.
One thing I want to be clear about is that the Centers for Disease Control recommends facial coverings in
indoor public transportation settings at this time. As such, employees and customers can choose to
continue to wear facial coverings, though they are not required to do so.
It is encouraging to note that despite a modest uptick in overall COVID-19 cases in Colorado,
transmission rates remain low. According to CDC data from last Thursday, the 21st of April, only one
county in Colorado, namely, Pitkin County on the Western slope, is considered to be in the medium
transmission category, whereas all others are considered to have low transmission rates. The leadership
team and I will continue to monitor health data in state and federal guidance to determine whether
additional revisions to masking, building capacity limitations, or other health protocols are in order.
So that concludes my report for this evening. I appreciate the attention. And with that, Mr. Chair, I will
yield the floor back to you. Thank you very kindly.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I see Director Broom has his hand up for a question.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I don't really have a question, but I have a comment. I think it'd be
helpful to the Board if we could get a presentation by the RAC or some other state agency on the new
ozone requirements and how it would impact RTD. We were very close to meeting the old standards for
ozone, and then, of course, the EPA has moved the goalpost.

The other thing is it's interesting to note that a lot of the pollution is not where you think it is. The station at
Chatfield Reservoir is always one of the highest areas for concentrations of gases, which surprises a lot
of people. And so it'd be helpful, I think, to the Board to have some feel for where the problems are
severe and how we might be able to help alleviate them. Thank you
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. A quick question, and just forward something that had come to me from a
couple of constituents. Do we know when we'll be looking at fall service changes? And is there a
capability of adding service at that point?
The particular question I'd had had to do with access to Civic Center. You know, currently people who
come in from the north or northwest need to get off the bus or whatever, the train, at Union Station and
then take the 16th Street Mall Shuttle or the 15. And this person reached out in the wake of newspaper
reporting that talked about those two lines in particular being among the most accident or violence prone
routes.
And so I wondered if that's the sort of thing that you can weigh in terms of your decision making about
providing the restoration of some service. I told her about the FF4, which now will have a stop at US 36
and Sheridan, once it's restored, and then also the Metro Ride. But I just wondered about the timing and
how you factor in those kinds of pieces or input.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. And thank you for your comments, Director Cook. And I would
like to qualify for everybody a simple recognizing that the 15 along Colfax Avenue is our most heavily
utilized route. And so when there is the perception of so-called violence and things of the like as to the
propensity of volume in which we're carrying, and that would hold true for 16, the mall street shuttle, in the
sense of being free.
So recognizing where we are collectively at the Operations and Safety Committee that's going to convene
next month, there will be a presentation from staff as it relates to prospective service changes going
forward. And when we look at things holistically, with the perception of violence or whatever activity, as
we know, it's interwoven into the communities in which we serve, so we look at it from a deployment
vantage point in relationship to resources. And we will provide information to you at such time as we look
at it through a equity lens in reference to ensuring that we are addressing the needs holistically from a
regional perspective.
SHELLEY COOK: So you said next Operations Committee. Did I hear that right?
DEBRA JOHNSON: That is correct, Director Cook, yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And thanks, General Manager Johnson.
We're going to move on to the unanimous consent item. There's one item on the unanimous consent
agenda, listed under item Roman 16 as item A. And that is coping panel budget transfer. If anyone has a
change to or has questions on this item, please feel free to let me know at this time. I'll be happy to
remove it and move it on to the recommended action agenda, if that is the case. Anybody have any
request to remove this item from the consent agenda?
Seeing none, I need a motion to approve the consent agenda.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Second by Williams. Movant was Director Riviera-Malpiede. Are there any, any
discussion of this action item? Seeing none, are there any no votes? Seeing none, then this passes 14 to
zero.
There are no recommended actions to come before the Board this evening. Are there any other matters
to come before the Board? Director Williams, I see your hand.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Hi. Thank you, Chair.
I just want to note that a number of my constituents have commented about the inability to use any type
of a restroom facility, either in Union Station or in the bus concourse, and that that is difficult if you are
transferring, if you have a long commute from one end to the other and, that there is no ability to have any
kind of a comfort break in between.
So I didn't want to call that to our attention, since they have made some serious effort to call that to mine.
Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Tisdale, you're next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. At the risk of piling on, I will join in the comments
of Director Williams relative to that and incorporate, by reference, the comment that was made earlier
during the public session regarding use of facilities.
It's something that we need to address. I recognize that we are in the course of doing an overall revamp
of how situations are addressed at Denver Union Station regarding so-called violence or drug usage,
which I think is not so-called. The situation arises that we need, in the meanwhile, to deal with the
necessity to address human functions. So whatever we can do to accelerate that process I think would be
appreciated by all.

Second-- and I'm sorry, I have three things, briefly. Second thing, thank you for the report relative to the
in-person meetings probably in the fall and for stating that the reason is associated with IT improvements
that we're doing in the RT and D conference rooms, so that we all understand that's why we're not
gathering together.
Third, briefly, it used to be, under Other Business, that this was an opportunity for Directors to report on
their activities that they had over the course of the prior month, in terms of meetings with other
governmental agencies, with institutions, with constituents and so forth. A couple of years ago, we
stopped doing that. And I just want to suggest that I think it would actually be beneficial to restore that
custom and to afford that opportunity to the Directors. So I leave that to the collective consideration of all.
Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. That's all that I had.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And I will ask Ms. McManus, if you could add that to our
next Executive Committee agenda, before I forget, and we'll talk about it then. Thanks, Director Tisdale.
Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So just to brief the governmental affairs tidbit, as you all recall,
on April 12, we unanimously approved support of SB22-180, Programs to Reduce Ozone Through
Increased Transit. It is our intent, depending on the time of the day, that either myself or Director
Guissinger gives a very short bit of testimony in support of that bill on Thursday afternoon in the House
Energy and Environment Committee. So that will be happening scheduled right at 1:30. But this time of
floor work could morph into the afternoon. So not sure about the time, but hoping for 1:30.
That's all I have. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Whitmore.
Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And certainly echo some of the concerns that were brought
up about the use of facilities by our passengers at Denver Union Station.
And another issue that I'd like to bring up, and as we all are and as we've discuss at every Board meeting,
the issues of safety and drug use and things like that on the system, I heard from a gentleman who really
had me on the phone for over half an hour, and Mr. Porterfield. And so he said, look, we really do need to
make this one of our highest priorities, which I assured him that we are doing.
So in that vein I know that the legislature is considering House Bill 1326, which Mr. Davies has kept on
our monitoring list. And that's in regards to the fentanyl issue. So what I would suggest is possibly our
Board looking at that bill and considering whether we would like to support it. I understand that our next
Board meeting is not until May 24, which is after the legislative session ends. But it would be probably
before the governor's had a chance to sign that bill. So just bringing that bill up for a possible
consideration for support by the Board as well. Thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: Right. Thanks for that those comments. Appreciate it.
Director Rivera-Malpiede, you're next.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
I just wanted to take a moment to talk about a great man that we lost last Friday, Dennis Gallagher. A lot
of you've known Dennis. He was a mentor to me. And I remember when he ran for mayor against
Federico Peña, bigger than life and such an advocate for transit. And I know that he was an advocate for
so many of us. We could call him any time of the day or night for any kind of support or wisdom.
So I just wanted to take a moment to do a moment of silence in his honor.
Thank you. Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. And a lot of us had dealings with Dennis Gallagher. He could speak
extemporaneously and intelligently on just about any subject you could ask him about, incredible person.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And in multiple languages. Gaelic was his other language, but I think he
spoke something like 15 languages. He was just extraordinary. So yeah, we're going to miss him.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Any other matters to come before the Board this evening?
Seeing none, I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore is the movant, Director Rivera-Malpiede, the second. Anybody
opposed? Of course not. I see that we are now adjourned at 6:32 PM. Good evening, everyone. Thanks
for participating.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Bye-bye. Thank you.

From: Kathryn Vandegrift
Sent: Tuesday, April 26, 2022 1:00 PM
To: RTD Board Office <RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com>
Cc: Angelina Malpiede <angie.rivera-malpiede@rtd-denver.com>
Subject: Public Comment & Questions re: Union Station Re-Design
To the RTD Board and Staff,
I've seen numerous sources and press releases about the proposed plan to improve safety and the rider experience at
union station, especially for the bus concourse.
My question is in regards to the plans for the A-line platform stairs. We've seen a national and global trend of increasing
work-from-home, and there's a high degree of interest in converting now-unused downtown office space into
apartment units. There's also an increasing trend of reverse commuting where predominantly young people want the
amenities and liveliness of living in a core urban area, and where their employment may be based in industrial parks
and technology centers in suburban cities like Centennial and Broomfield.
I am a part of this trend. I live next to the 38th & Blake station along the A-line. My employer is based in the Interlocken
Technology Park in Broomfield. When I commute to the office by transit, I take the A-line to Union Station, descend the
stairs into the bus concourse, and take the Flatiron Flier from Gate B17 to the Broomfield station.
My questions to the staff and the board are:




Have alternatives to the planned conversion of the A-line platform staircase to an emergency exit been
considered?
Has the impact on those who commute to the suburbs from downtown or along the A-line been considered by
staff in coming to the present preferred alternative?
Are there reasons why the A-line platform stairs would be unsuited to conversion to a fair zone entrance along
with the Wewatta and Chestnut pavilions?

Thanks and all the best,
Kathryn

1

