2025-06-18
Executive Committee
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. The Wednesday, June 18 Executive Committee will now come to order.
We're convened as of 11:15 AM. I respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself
unless you're recognized to speak.
Please note that the Committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we're providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page. All right. I'll now call the roll. First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore? I see an attempt.
JACK KROLL: He's here.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I can say he's-- I can see him. He's got to be present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore is here. Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: I'm here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, I'm here. And for the record-- so all five of us are here. For the record, I see
Director Chandler has joined us and Director Larsen, Director Guzman. And I believe that is it. So thank
you all for joining.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who'd like to address the Committee regarding any topic listed
in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak
and have not already done so, please either raise your hand-- please raise your virtual hand or press
Star-9 on your phone.

During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com.
If there are hands raised right now, just as a reminder, please bear in mind, staff will unmute you when it
is your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, press Star-6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind
that by participating in this process, you're being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your
comments will need to be submitted via writing. Comments can be submitted to the Board Office at the
following email address. rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak Mr. Kroll, do we have any speakers today?
JACK KROLL: Yes. At this time, I see two hands raised. The first hand is from Jaime Lewis.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Former Director Lewis you're recognized.
JAIME LEWIS: Good morning. I'd like to address the subject matter that's on your agenda today
concerning the renaming of Civic Center Park. Jack Kroll and his staff has done a great job in
summarizing all the work that has been done for the last two and a half years.
But to summarize quickly for those Board members who may not have been able to read the packet,
about two and a half years ago, Joe Beaver, a Senior Advocate in the state of Colorado, requested that
the Civic Center Station be renamed to include the name Wade Blank.
Unfortunately at that time, the Board did not have a naming process. So in 2020-- late 2023, 2024, thanks
to Jack and his staff, with the help of Director Ruscha and former Director Sloan, they came up with the
processes in order to rename properties for RTD.
So a disability workgroup was put together by myself in 2024 that consisted of Earl Lee, Barry
Rosenberg, Joe Beaver, Dawn Russell, Brian Grewe, and Marisa Caruso. At that time, at the beginning of
this year, 2025, because of the work of that group initiating the application to change the Civic Center to
Wade Blank, Jack formed a Committee. I think it's a Committee of eight. Before that, our Committee
collected over 30 endorsements, including the proclamation from the city of Denver and the General
Assembly of our state in 2023.
The working group did meet with the Committee to share information a few weeks ago, and I know that
Committee also had a chance to visit the museum at the Atlantis Incorporated, which is an independent
living center that has a plethora of history concerning Wade Blank. And I think what they learned most is
that Wade Blank was more than just a Gang of 19. He was a civil rights leader who marched with Martin
Luther King.
He also established independent living here in Colorado. We are one of the leaders in ensuring people
with disabilities are not relegated to a nursing home, but that they can live independently in the
community. And he also gave us a platform, people with disabilities, a platform to speak for themselves,
whether that was at the legislature level or at the federal level.
So I just want to commend the work that staff has done and hope you approve this for the main meeting,
your next full Board meeting. So thank you very much.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, former Director Lewis, for your comments. Our next speaker, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have Earl Lee.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Lee.
EARL LEE: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. My name is Earl Lee. I am the outgoing Chair of the ACPD
Committee. And I was honored with a seat on the Renaming Committee as well.
When Wade Blank came to Denver in 1971, Denver's ugly laws, which prohibited people with visible
disabilities from appearing in public, were still in effect. RTD had been established but would not start bus
service until 1974, and handicapped people were institutionalized as if they were inflicted with a disease.
Wade Blank came to Denver to work at Heritage House, a nursing home, one of the institutions that
housed handicapped. During this time, Wade became concerned about how institutionalized living was
negatively affecting people with disabilities. Along with a friend, Barry Rosenberg, he began outings with
the Heritage House patients using Rosenberg's VW van. They went to Red Rocks, to parks, to other
public spaces now that ugly laws had been repealed.
That was not enough for Wade Blank, though. He wanted community-- he wanted a community designed
for people with disabilities to live independently. In 1975, he co-founded the Atlantis Community, only the
second such organization in the country at that time. Atlantis provides housing and services to people
with disabilities so that they can live independently.
Independent living, however, means nothing if you can't travel anywhere. Wade spoke with RTD about
adding lifts to their buses to accommodate wheelchairs with some limited success. So the Gang of 19
was formed under his direction in 1978. Using their wheelchairs, they surrounded two buses at Colfax
and Broadway for two days.
The negotiations restarted. RTD agreed to make all new buses wheelchair-accessible, making them one
of the first in the nation. So the area of Colfax and Broadway is a place in history. Civic Center Station
becomes the basis of that. And we hope that you agree to add the honorarium of Wade Blank to Civic
Center Station. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Lee. Mr. Kroll, any other speakers?
JACK KROLL: At this time, there are no further hands raised.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Were there any emails?
JACK KROLL: Specific to contents on this agenda, no.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. With no further public comments, I will close this section
for public participation. OK. Moving on, there are two recommended actions on today's agenda. The first
action under consideration for the Committee is the state lobbying services contract.
This is for the Board of Directors to authorize General Manager and CEO to enter into a contract for state
lobbying services with Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs, or BBMK, for a contract term of three years
with two option years. The total not-to-exceed contract cost over five years will be $690,000. Do we have
a motion?

TROY L. WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second, O'Keefe.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We have Whitmore as the mover and O'Keefe as the second. Mr. Davies, our
Government Relations Officer, would you like to present this item?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair, members of the Committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. This recommended action is following the April 29, 2025, action by the Board of
Directors to approve a summary scope of work for a solicitation for state lobbying services.
On May 5, a competitive solicitation was published. An evaluation panel did conclude after the
competitive solicitation period was closed. And the panel does recommend awarding a contract to
Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs. That's all I have in terms of remarks, but happy to answer any
questions. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, Mr. Davies. Do we have any questions or comments?
Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, thank you. Mr. Davies, can you speak a little bit to the process of solicitation,
competitive solicitation here? How many bids or-- I forget, I don't know the term here-- did we receive for
this that the Committee ultimately considered before selecting to go with our current wonderful providers,
Brandeberry McKenna?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah, thank you, Director. Only one bid was submitted.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: What kind-- in terms of outreach on a bid like this-- obviously, you publish it on the,
I assume, OpenGov website. But what kind of outreach did you do to the other lobbying firms in the
capital to make them aware of the fact that this was an available opportunity?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Davies. Or Mr. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, if I may, I'll take that question. Thank you very much, Chair Bouquet, and
greetings all. Debra Johnson, General Manager and Chief Executive Officer.
So recognizing that we ensure that we have open and fair competition as it relates to solicitations, we
work with our Contracting and Procurement Office. There's a myriad of ways in which we publicize
different solicitations. Quite naturally, there are registered vendors that basically sign up to ensure that
they're apprised of notifications. They do that in adherence with the NAICS codes, NAIC representing the
North American Industry Con-- North American Industry Contracting Services, I believe. And it basically
has line items for the different types of solicitations that are readily available.
We also publish solicitations available in trade industries. They could be more or less specific on the
NAICS code in which it's aligned with. And I think what's important to mention here-- and I'm going to
overstep just somewhat-- that quite naturally when you're looking at a professional services contract in

relationship to where we sit, recognizing that there was one bidder, generally speaking, most individuals
within that NAICS code have an understanding who's providing that service.
And so that's also oftentimes a factor in not getting other solicitations, because simply put, people know
that this contractor customarily is bidding. And so that is the nature of the beast. But I want to ensure that
we adhere to procurement practices and we do leverage the opportunity, since we're in a public setting
now, talking about solicitation. And we did bring the summary scope of work forward to this body and then
double back with you, which we're doing now. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I appreciate it. It's helpful for me to understand how all of this works. And thank you
for the detailed explanation, both of you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to add that as one of the Board's representatives
for day-to-day government affairs contact, I got the pleasure of dealing with the firm over the past five
months. And it was definitely a difficult session. The state was dealing with budget issues. There were, of
course, several things that were of interest to RTD. And I was very impressed in my first year dealing with
them and their ability to adapt and provide good counsel and help us through some challenging issues.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Any further comments or questions?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Mr. Chair, if I may, I'm having a hard time with my Raise Hand function, but I have
figured out mute. So I just wanted to mention that I've had six years of experience with this firm, and even
a couple of years prior to that as a different client.
And they're just outstanding, one of the best in the capital. And their institutional knowledge of RTD is far
and away better than anybody that could bid on the job. And I've just been very impressed with all
associates at the firm, so I strongly recommend a yes vote to continue this relationship. Thank you, Mr.
Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Any further comments or questions? OK. Seeing none, I'll take
the vote. Are there any no votes on this item? OK. Seeing none, the item will pass 5 to 0.
All right. Moving on, folks, we're going to go to our next action item, and that is for the appointment of
Chair Bouquet to Senate Bill 25-161 Accountability Committee. For the Board of Directors to appoint
Chair Bouquet to represent the Board of Directors as a nonvoting member on the Accountability
Committee established by Senate Bill 25-161, do we have a motion?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So moved.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. So I have O'Keefe as the mover and I have Nicholson as the second. Before I
open this up to the further discussion to the Committee, I do want to take a moment to give two main
reasons of why I believe I'll be the appropriate candidate for this position.

So first off, the position of the Chair of the Board is best positioned to share perspectives of what I've
seen as a Chair compared to what I've seen as four years as a Director. Being a Chair, I think, really
opens your eyes in regards to the overall governance of this Board.
And then second, though, this is a recommendation that keeps with our practices of having the Chair
recommend appointments and select external Committees. I did want to bring this forward to the EC and
then ultimately the Board to get any feedback that you wanted in regards to this. And with that, I'll open it
up to further discussion. And I see first Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I really support your participation. I think it's really important for the Chair to be
represented on this. We do have a number of other bites of the apple of former Directors, and of course,
the governor's appointee. And my only request in this whole thing is during the process, you must refer to
yourself in the third person.
JULIEN BOUQUET: [LAUGHS] Sounds good. Appreciate the request. Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so my only question here is you already have a pretty big job in being the
Chair, and you also have a pretty big job in being a school teacher in the fall, and you also have a
personal life occasionally. Do you feel pretty comfortable about your ability to take on this additional
responsibility and really dig into it? Because obviously, this is really important for us.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Great question. And to the latter, I'm not sure if I do have a personal life anymore.
My full-time career is as a public servant. I do believe so. If it does get to a situation where I feel that this
would be too much to take on, one is going to be my second-largest priority after being the Board Chair of
serving on this Committee. But if it does, got some backup plans, so thank you. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes. And with that same vein, I would ask, is there an opportunity to put-- to
appoint someone to be-- just in case you're sick? Or I mean, what is the appointment process for that?
Because obviously, there could be a time when you just absolutely can't make it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, absolutely. I'm not sure if I can answer that question at this time. I'm not sure-Troy, I know you-- or Director Whitmore, I know you served on the Accountability before. Did you and
Lynn ever have a process in regard to that?
TROY L. WHITMORE: I don't recall that we did, but we were not voting members. We were largely
observers with an opportunity, along with Ms. Johnson, to opine from time to time. So yeah, I don't recall
a backup then, Mr. Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I was going to add, considering that these are
open and public meetings, anyone can attend. So recognizing that the Chair is a nonvoting member,
there could be others that are privy to the discussions, more or less. There were questions that were
fielded from the participants as well. And I believe in this instance, if any Board member opted to attend,
I'm certain that the Accountability Committee would allow you to put forward comment in the absence of
the Chair, or even when the Chair is present.
So I just wanted to state that for the record, as I am not a member of the Board. But however, recognizing
the scope of the Accountability Committee during its last cycle, I was able to offer valuable input relative

to some key elements that the members maybe weren't aware of relative to certain aspects in relationship
to transit operations and things of the like. So I'm certain you'll have that opportunity as well. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Yeah. And on that note, I do want to mention, Mr. Kroll, I
will have him as a staffing member as well. My hope is he can attend these accountability Committees as
well. And as mentioned, it is open to the public. So at any point we feel-- I get very sick or I'll be gone, that
I'll have a replacement take that position. And anyone can attend it since it is a public meeting. Director
Benker? Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Well, first of all, thank you for being willing to do this, because I think it's going to be an
intense job, but interesting. My question, though, is with regard to Senate Bill 161.
There are so many items listed in Senate Bill 161. I was sort of going back and forth here with Jack, just
making sure that somebody at RTD is keeping track of every single item that the legislature's now
requiring us to do, whether it's a report or a particular process. It seems like there's so many. I've lost
count when I've gone back and tried reading it. So long as we are keeping track of every item in 161 and
we can go back to the state legislature and report. That's my only comment.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Treasurer Benker, for your
comments. I want to assure everybody that's assembled and those that are listening in that we quite
naturally are keeping track, recognizing we have an obligation to be good fiduciaries. There are certain
things that are in statute to which we must adhere.
The team and I have already met. We have a process in place. And rest assured that we will be
presenting before TLRC and other bodies as requested, and we will be very well suited to do such. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. OK. The other thing I would like to note as well before we take it to a
vote, I will be giving major updates in regards to the Accountability Committee through my weekly
updates. So do keep an eye out for those as the process goes forward. I think it'll be very important,
because it's kind of a quick time frame that we're looking at in regards to this Accountability Committee.
So keep an eye out for the weekly updates. I'll make sure, for those who can't attend the public meetings,
everyone knows what's going on. OK, let's put it to a vote if I don't see any further discussion. Are there
any no votes on this? OK. Seeing none, the motion will-- or the item will pass 5 to 0. I'm honored. Thank
you.
All right. Moving on, those are our two recommended actions. We're going to move on to the June Board
meeting agenda. So before we move on to that review, I would like to note that the Board will have a
special Board meeting the same day as our regular Board meeting, and that's going to begin at 3:00 PM.
The anticipated agenda items for the meeting include approval of the Joint Rail Service IGA and another
action item relating to an existing contract. So moving on, is there a motion to approve the regular
monthly Board meeting agenda for meeting on Tuesday, June 24?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Got O'Keefe.

TROY L. WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I've got Whitmore as a second. Any discussion on this? OK. Seeing none, take the
vote. Any no votes on this item? OK. Seeing none, will pass 5-0.
OK. There are two items of discussion on today's agenda, and the first is the monthly Government
Relations Report of June 2025. Government Relations Officer Mr. Davies, would you please present this
item?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair, members of the Committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. I have a brief Government Relations Report where I'll touch on federal, state, and local
issues.
Starting at the federal level, really the focus is on the reconciliation process. And again, reconciliation is
really related to revenues that fund our federal government and really only requires a 50 plus 1 majority to
pass both House and Senate.
The reconciliation bill did pass the House and is being debated in the Senate at this point. The Senate
Finance Committee on Monday did release their version of the reconciliation bill. There are differences
between that and the House-passed version.
Notably, as I reported in a previous Government Relations Report, in the House version there were some
changes to revenues that would have supported the Highway Trust Fund. And of course, that's important
because the Highway Trust Fund is a major contributor to funding a surface transportation bill. The
Senate Finance Committee-released version does not have those fees that were there, so just noting that
difference there.
And as I said, because there are differences, we will see where the process goes in the Senate. But there
will likely be differences if the Senate is able to pass their bill. So there was originally a July 4 kind of goal
between both House and Senate to send this bill to the president.
That's going to be a very tough goal to make, and I think it's probably realistic that this issue will be
debated further into the July time frame. And I know both House and Senate will really be pushing to
come to a conclusion before a planned August recess for Congress.
Second, the president's budget. There were further details. As you all may recall, there was a skinny
budget released. A second, more detailed version of the president's recommended budget to Congress
was released that detailed a little more of the Department of Transportation's recommended funding
levels.
I think good news is that transit funding did receive an increase in the president's recommended budget, a
1.5% increase for public transit funding. So that's good news.
I will just note, with regards to the appropriation process, which is normally where Congress would be
focused on at this time, really a lot of the oxygen in the room is being taken up by the reconciliation
process. So there are delays in terms of the overall timeline to appropriations, but some of the House
Subcommittees on appropriations are starting to do their work.

I believe we anticipate really a mid-July time frame when the House Transportation Appropriations
Subcommittee that oversees DoT funding is expected to do their work in the House. So that will be one of
the first bills that we see with regards to the appropriations process out of Congress.
Moving on to state issues, since my last report on June 2, Governor Polis did sign House Bill 25-1290.
That's the transit worker assault and funding bill.
In other issues, I have been tracking the Accountability Committee process, which is really being run and
stood up by the Colorado Energy Office. There are no details that I have to report to the Board at this
point. I have been in touch with Energy Office staff, and will keep in communication with them and try to
provide as much detail as I can in terms of schedule and logistics and planning to the RTD Board.
Lastly, the Transportation Legislation Review Committee, or TLRC, does hold interim meetings during the
summer. Those meetings traditionally have started more in the July time frame. This year, they appear to
be pushed back. This week, they did set their agenda for three meetings starting in late August and early
September, and then into October.
We'll work closely with the TLRC staff to get a time for RTD to schedule and make sure that we adhere to
statutory requirements to report before the TLRC. And to Director Benker's point, that'll be an opportunity
to really report on some of those items associated with 161 and other bills in the past.
Moving on to the local level, on May 4, General Manager Johnson, as well as Chief of Police Martingano
did have an opportunity to present and meet with the Metro Mayors Caucus. And those are always great
opportunities to update all of the mayors that participate in the Mayors Caucus.
And it was a good discussion, largely touching on personal security, data, and reports for them, and took
a lot of questions and discussion there. That is all I have for my Government Relations Report, and happy
to answer any questions. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Davies. Any questions? Yeah, Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. So Mr. Davies, obviously we're coming up on the appointment period. I've
had some constituents and their kids express interest in the youth appointment to that, and whether that's
going to be an open process or how that's going to look. Is that something where at this point they should
just reach out to the senator who's making the appointment, or are we going to get more-- like, this seems
like something where we may be heading toward not having an open process, just because this has to
start relatively soon.
We're talking about, I think, August 1 is when the first meetings are going to be. So from your perspective,
if you're not hearing anything so far on what that process is going to look like, what would your
recommendation be to my constituents who are interested in serving in some of these roles?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Thank you, Director Nicholson. Great question. And to your point, there is no
details that I have been told in my communications with the Energy Office. Again, this has really been run
and stood up by the Colorado Energy Office. There hasn't been any details passed on to me in terms of
how that process happens for all of the other individuals that have a responsibility to appoint people to
that Committee.

Again, you did mention August 1. That is the deadline. And in terms of a recommendation, I think you're
correct. Reaching out to the senators or elected officials, House members included as well, that are
responsible for appointing, if there are individuals that you speak to, I would recommend that they just
reach out to the most logical individual listed in the bill that would meet the appointment that they're
seeking. But there is nothing that has been asked of RTD as a part of that process.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Got it. Thank you very much. I appreciate it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you, Mr. Davies. Any other comments or questions for Mr. Davies?
Perfect. Well, thank you, sir, for your presentation. Greatly appreciated.
All right. Moving on. Our second item is for the Honorary Property Name Proposal Review Committee
recommendation of Civic Center Station. And Mr. Kroll, would you please present on this to the
Committee?
JACK KROLL: Absolutely. Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. I'm here to present on the
work of the Honorary Property Name Proposal Review Committee, which looked at a proposal that the
Board Office received with respect to Civic Center Station.
Just to ground everybody, we'll go over quickly what the current Board policy is on these proposals. We'll
talk about the actual proposal that was received. Then I'll share some insights into how the Review
Committee conducted its work and share ultimately the Review Committee's recommendation. And then
we will have a quick conversation about timeline and next steps. And then we do-- we are looking for
some sort of consensus direction from the Executive Committee at this juncture per the Board's policy on
the matter.
So speaking of the policy, this was something that, as former Director Lewis alluded to, the Board did not
have in place in late 2023 when you all received a letter signed by several dozen members of the General
Assembly, encouraging you all to pursue an honorary name for Civic Center Station, Recognizing the
contributions of Wade Blank.
And prior to that letter, all station naming actions were done by the Board. But these were done in a
sense of, how do we orient people to the system? They were never done with the perspective of having
an honorary name on the property. So there was an existing property and station naming policy that we
reviewed as a group, and it was determined that it would make sense to pursue an additional policy that
outlined the steps that the community could take to add an honorary name.
It was adopted back in July of 2024 after a great deal of work by Government Relations Officer Michael
Davies, Directors Ruscha, and former Director Marjorie Sloan, and myself. And the Board provided input
along the way to craft that.
And this policy applies to stations, park and rides, facilities, and really any RTD-owned property. And it's
not intended-- I want to be very clear about this. The policy is not intended to displace a primary station
name. In developing the property-- in developing the policy, we looked across the APTA landscape and
saw that not a lot of other transit agencies-- regional transit agencies, that is-- have stations with honorary
names. And those that do remain very loyal to the primary station name remaining a wayfinding name.

At the end of the day, you all sit on top of a transit agency that helps people get from A to B. So it's
important to have a policy that recognizes the primacy of navigating and orienting the customer to their
surroundings.
The proposal submission process is pretty straightforward. Once you all approved the policy back in July
of 2024, the Board Office stood up an application of interest on our website. We don't have the systems to
take all of the documents that the community needs to submit at one time, so we opened up an
application of interest that I check regularly, whereby community members can go on to the Board's
website and submit, hey, this is the station I'm thinking about. This is the individual I'm thinking about. And
then I follow up with them directly to make sure that they understand the process from that point on.
Primarily, the process is comprised of three components that the community must submit. Biography or
historical background of the proposed honoree, letters of support from community members, kind of
showing that breadth and depth of community support. And a proclamation or resolution from local,
county, or city government supporting the honorary name.
And I think this last key-- this last piece is key here. You all, in developing station names for the various
lines that the agency built out over the last 20 years, had a commitment to partnering with local
municipalities on what those names would be, and this is in line with that.
The last thing you all would want to do from a governance perspective is rename a property or station
without the support of the local community. And having a proclamation or resolution from the local city
council is obviously a great proxy to appreciate whether that community supports the proposal or not.
Then within the proposal, the review Committee is specifically looked-- and the Board, ultimately, is
specifically looking for certain criteria. And those are namely documented contributions to transit locally,
documented contributions to public transit nationally, or documented direct connection with a significant
event occurring within the vicinity of the property or station that the community's seeking to add an
honorary name to.
One thing that's important to note here is that it's not intended to conflict with any kind of corporate
sponsorship that may end up or not on a given station. So that is a policy that you all also have too. The
one time it was notably used was the University of Colorado A Line.
Since then, there haven't been any necessarily notable corporate sponsorships of any stations or lines
within the district. But the policy's intended to separate honorary names from corporate sponsors. And
any station that has a corporate sponsorship is not eligible for an honorary name, and vice versa. And
then it cannot be a former RTD Director, and the person must be deceased for a minimum of 10 years to
be eligible.
So that part of the process too-- and I'm not going to run through this review rubric in full here. But you
can see that the Board established a review rubric to keep consistent review of these proposals over
time. Three criteria that it is evaluated on is the historical significance, the breadth and depth of
community support, and the alignment with RTD's values. And you can see the scoring system here,
which we'll make note of later when we talk about how the Committee scored this proposal.
The proposal itself that you all received was for Civic Center Station to honor the life and career and
contributions-- many contributions of Reverend Wade Blank. The proposal was submitted by Joe Beaver
and Mark Simon.

They actually both submitted proposals, but I worked with Director Lewis to ensure that the community
got behind one main proposal and put that forward. It ultimately resulted in 28 letters of recommendation,
which are included in your packet. And Denver City Council unanimously approved its resolution of
support at the end of April. Once the end of April came around, that's when we considered here in the
Board Office that the application had been completed, and we began to stand up the review Committee.
Reverend Wade Blank-- many of you might be already very familiar with his work. But this is just a brief
overcap of their contributions. As early mentioned at the beginning, Reverend Blank came to the Denver
area in the early 1970s and found a passion for working with people with disabilities. And it's clear that his
life and career not only gave those individuals a platform to have their voices heard, but allowed them to
live a life that was much more normal than society was affording them at the time.
And obviously, there's a huge connection here nationally, because a lot of the work that Reverend Blank
did with RTD and Denver spawned similar protest movements across the country and led to what many
argue within the historical community were significant contributing factors to the passing of the ADA in
1990. And then obviously, the Gang of 19 protest that was referenced earlier by Mr. Lee is directly
connected to Civic Center Station, having occurred directly across the street from where the station
resides today.
And here is a photo of Reverend Blank and his son, Lincoln. Reverend Blank unfortunately passed away
trying to save Lincoln's life in a drowning accident off the Coast of California. In part a result of his
untimely death, the agency actually previously dedicated Civic Center Station in his honor. And the
plaque that is pictured here you can find near the ticket window in Civic Center Station if you ever go in
there.
The agency subsequently, after a renovation to the facility, went back and rededicated this plaque in the
summer of 2023. And so the agency has acted formally in a previous time frame to recognize Reverend
Blank. And this proposal, I think, would only further advance the previous recognition that he has been
afforded.
So the work of the Committee, the policy that you all have clearly outlines a specific group of individuals
that should be a part of the Committee, not necessarily because of who they are, but because of their
roles within the agency. And you can see here listed the members of the Committee and their various
roles.
One person I want to highlight here are really the three people at the bottom of this list. Assistant
Professor Rachel Gross, who is the Co-Director of the Public History Program. When the Board put
together its policy, it was adamant that there be someone from the history community or historical
community as part of this Committee. And public history is the practice of studying the history in our public
spaces. So you have the academic history that's presented in your textbooks and in your schools, but
there is a great amount of public history that exists all around us, all the time.
And now Associate Professor Gross is the Co-Director of that program at CU Denver, and so it was a
great addition to the Committee's work. And then to provide additional community input, the Committee
also includes members from the ACPD and the CAC to ensure that this is not just an internal RTD
process, that there's a lot of community input into reviewing the proposal as well.
And the group really was just asked to review the materials that were submitted, judge them against the
rubric that the Board had passed and the policy that the Board had set into place. We did take a tour of

the Atlantis Community Incorporated offices, which, as this process unfolds, if any Directors are interested
in learning more, I think that's a great place to start. And I would be happy to coordinate another tour
specific for Directors with that space, because it's a really important part of the history of RTD and the
history of the region.
Ultimately, the Committee made the recommendation unanimously to encourage the Executive
Committee to move forward with adopting an honorary name for Civic Center Station. You can see the
scoring here. Hearkening back to the rubric, the top score any evaluative criteria could receive was 7.
And you can see the average score on most of these was right around 6. And then you can see that 23 of
the 24 scored evaluations rated the proposal that we received as exceeding expectations. Only one
category was rated as meets expectations.
So obviously, the Review Committee that was established by the policy has a very favorable view of this
proposal, and it met a lot of the criteria that the Board has set forward. And in fact, it met all of the criteria
that the Board has set forward and frequently exceeded it.
The recommendation from the group is to move forward with the name of Wade Blank Civic Center
Station. Part of the Committee's makeup you can see here comprises an individual, Steven Brier, from
our RTD Communications and Engagement staff. That individual being on the Committee allowed the
Committee to put forward a name that I think is well grounded in allowing RTD to put forward something
that's accessible, understandable, and has a good community feel to it. It also matches what the Denver
City Council had approved in its recommendation in April.
And so the next steps. Obviously, the meeting today is the June 18 one here in the middle of the screen.
It's the fourth from the left. And we're presenting this as a discussion item.
If there is consensus from you all as an Executive Committee, we would then return to you all in July with
a recommended action that contained two pieces of information that we don't have available at this time.
One would be the cost estimates to updating the signage at the station, as well as across the system in
various different digital assets and the timeline associated with doing so.
And once all of that information was in hand, if the Executive Committee wanted to recommend the action
to the full Board, it could. At such time as this item reaches the full Board, I want to be clear that it would
require a 2/3 majority vote to be approved.
And with that, Chair Bouquet, that concludes my presentation, and I would encourage you all to have a
discussion now around how you feel about this proposal and give some direction to staff. I'm also happy
to answer any questions that you all may have.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. I will take Chair's privilege right now and just say I
was able to attend one of the Committee meetings a few weeks back, and it was excellent to hear
everyone's stories. And I greatly appreciate the work that this Committee has done. Exciting stuff on my
end. Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I certainly echo your comments about the Committee's work
and Mr. Kroll's work. This is something that's been needing to be done for quite some time, and now we
have a great policy to utilize in the future.

And this is really a no-brainer. I'm in full support of moving this item to the full Board, and can't wait to
celebrate the activity, because I'm sure it will be a very positive vote. And with that, due to reschedule a
meeting, I will be departing this meeting. Thank you all very much, and we'll see you soon.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. We'll see you later, Second Vice Chair Whitmore. All right. We have four
executive members present now. Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So I've been following this process since before I was on the Board.
And obviously, having taken over from former Director Lewis and as someone who has many friends in
the disability community, it's something that I cared about a lot.
I think we should absolutely rename the facility for Reverend Blank. I don't feel as comfortable renaming
the station. And what do I mean by that?
In the same way that we have Empower Field at Civic Center Station, most transit agencies around the
country, having spent a good amount of time researching this and reading about it, rename plazas. They
rename halls. They don't rename the stations themselves because of the wayfinding concerns, because
of the impact to customers in being able to understand where they're trying to go.
And so again, happy to rename Wade Blank Hall at Civic Center Station, put up pictures, rename the
front of the thing. But I just think there's not much precedent nationwide for actually renaming the station
itself, and we should be thoughtful before we go ahead and start doing that, or we're going to get to a
point where it's Nabisco Station at-- or whatever. I just-- I feel really uncomfortable going down this road
without a really clear understanding of the fact that this is not something most other transit agencies do.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, thank you for the opportunity to respond. That was absolutely a concern of the
Board and of staff as we endeavored to develop the policy in 2024. And that is why it's very clear in the
policy that while the honorary name should be displayed prominently and used across the system, the
primary name will remain the wayfinding name.
And the Committee actually discussed-- when we were looking at what name to put forward as our
recommendation, the Committee actually discussed the irony of someone with a disability being
disoriented because they didn't know who Wade Blank was and they were going to Wade Blank Station.
And therefore, it's very important as this gets unfurled and rolled out that there's a nice balance struck
between the wayfinding element and the celebration of Mr. Blank-- or excuse me, Reverend Blank's life
and career and many contributions to transit.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I guess-- yeah. What I would say in that case is I need to know exactly what that
will look like in practice from staff. Where will we be? What will it look like on the maps? What will it look
like on the website? What will it look like-- give me an actual understanding of what the impact of this will
be. And if I can appreciate that it's not going to have-- it's not going to be confusing to people, then I'm
open to it. But I'm going to need to see that next month from you guys before I could be comfortable
moving forward with this.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. First Vice Chair O'Keefe. Oh. Did we lose him?

PATRICK O'KEEFE: Sorry. Nope. I'm here. I wanted to thank former Director Lewis for sharing the history
and context with me in a couple meetings.
I understand the concerns about blending together stations and locations. We actually-- when I was the
Project Manager for the original construction at National Western, there was a huge push to have the
National Western Center name incorporated in there.
And there was concern, I think, from RTD at the time-- I never heard it directly, it was just conveyed-- that
people would be confused about where National Western Center was. And I think this is just an effort in
wayfinding, and I'm willing to trust that staff are able to pull this together.
And maps are just maps. What's the stat? 40% of all Americans can't find the US on a map? And so it's
all-- we need to help with almost any name we give. So I appreciate this going forward, and I really
appreciate the really rigorous process for future naming so people understand, this is not something that
we're going to just name, rename, rename. And I do like that it has a fairly robust approval process, so
thank you, Mr. Kroll.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director O'Keefe. Yeah. Just on a note on that, I will say there was a lot
of Board discussion in regards to that last year and making sure we have a point system going forward
with it. Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Thank you. I moved to Colorado in the early 1980s, and I knew-- I heard much about
Wade Blank. And having served on the Board in the '90s and learning more about him, I would be in full
support of this measure. He almost single handedly changed RTD and how we serve members of the
disability community. And so naming this after him, however our staff or however the proposal's coming
forward, I would be in full support.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Treasurer. Mr. Kroll, does this help give direction for you?
JACK KROLL: I think we have a consensus. I believe we have Director Nicholson's direction to provide
specific information, and I can coordinate with staff on that element.
In closing, I just want to say a big thank you to all of the members of the Review Committee and just
quickly mention them by name. John McKay, who was the Executive Business Partner and now Chief of
Staff to the CEO. Gabe Christie, our Manager in ADA. Erik Wright, Deputy Assistant GM Rail Operations.
Steven Brier, Senior Manager of Marketing.
Associate Professor Gross, as I mentioned earlier, from the University of Colorado Denver. Earl Lee, our
outgoing ACPD Chair. And Caitlynn Forner, who is a member of the CAC. They all did phenomenal work,
and they gave time out of their busy schedules to this effort. And we couldn't have been successful
without their efforts and input and true engagement in this process.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And again, this Board thanks this Committee for all their work.
And it was really cool to see the discussion that was happening last time. I was able to attend. So thank
you all for your work, and looking forward to this next exciting step.
All right. Moving on, that was our last discussion item, so that'll move us into other matters. Are there any
other matters? Secretary.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So-- [COUGHS] excuse me. I circulated a letter earlier this week to our
fellow members of the Board about some of the disruptions that we've had over the last few weeks at the
protests, at the Nuggets game, at the Coldplay concert where individuals, constituents, and writers from
around the metro area have had their journeys significantly disrupted by our challenges in delivering
service as they expected it.
We've discussed this previously on the Board at operations. We've discussed it at previous Board
meetings. And I think especially with what happened over the weekend with individuals being left to walk
an hour in the hot sun because they couldn't get to Union Station, I've gotten more outreach about this
issue than anything else since I've been on the Board by a factor of three or four.
And I think we need to have a real discussion about how we are handling special service-- sorry, how we
are handling special events and incidences where we know that we will be dealing with a significant
amount of public ridership relative to what we would normally be experiencing and where that ridership is
in a, I must get to this thing or get home from this thing, whether that's a game, a protest, whatever.
We have not met what people have expected of us. And that may be partially us not setting expectations,
and that may be partially us not meeting the expectations that we have set.
But regardless of why, it is harmful actively and in a big way to our credibility with the public when we fall
down in a spectacular manner over major events. And so I would encourage-- as leaders of the Board, I'd
love to hear your thoughts on what we can do moving forward to address this. But this can't be something
that we just ignore.
Too many people-- I know Karen, you circulated an email from one of your constituents who ran into the
same thing. I don't want to see this happen again in two weeks and get more of these emails, so I'd love
to hear your thoughts as fellow Board members about what we can move forward. And obviously, if
GM/CEO Johnson wants to weigh in on her thoughts, I appreciate it. I will say your letter this morning
about the response to the protests in particular.
JULIEN BOUQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you for raising this issue, Director Nicholson. You and I talked a little bit. I
think a good approach for this is not to re-- not to try to deal with the individual events, but to take a step
back and look at our overall process and make sure the right resources are in place, the right authorities.
Do we have a single point of contact?
Get feedback from the major venues. Empower Field, Ball Arena, Coors Field, wherever you want to go,
the convention center, and get their feedback on what would work and what wouldn't work. This seems
like a great topic for a subset of OSS that has that expertise. I do not to work with a team of Board-- of
staff and the Board and not-- and I really hope that we make this about going forward rather than any
specific event that-- we could plan perfectly for that, and it would never happen that way again.
So I would be very supportive of a Subcommittee, special Committee, or a group, an informal group that's
Board and management, and really go out and get some feedback from the venues and people. And
there's a lot of-- we have great promoters that are based right here in Colorado, and they might have
some feedback. So that would be my kind of hope of how we would go forward.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director. Director Benker.

KAREN BENKER: Director O'Keefe, I like your suggestion of perhaps a Subcommittee of one of our
Committees, whether it's Operation or even Finance. There is also a section in Senate Bill 161 where
they specifically request RTD to put together a plan for large events like this. And what can we do when
there are service disruptions?
I do think we need to perhaps plan ahead a little bit more and put more thought or resources or whatever
is needed to make sure that we really shine on these events when there are so many folks that are
relying on RTD to get downtown. When there's crowds downtown, nobody wants to drive, which is a good
thing. So then they do try RTD, and it's at that point that I hope that we can showcase our service and
bring more new riders into the system, and see this more as an opportunity to serve the public as best we
can.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Treasurer. Yeah, I'll offer some comments as well. I think-- ultimately, I
think Director O'Keefe, I think you brought it up, one of our last Committee meetings in regards to firsttime rider experience in regards to the Coldplay concert.
And I have to be careful as a policymaker of us trying to get into exact details. I know the situations that
have happened in regards to the service disruptions, I would say, are fairly unique, but who knows what
the future holds in regards to mass protest or any factors such as that?
I think we need to look overall in regards to-- and is it potentially an ad hoc Committee or is it like a
working group to have that conversation with staff or have staff present that with OSS? So in regards to-we can't lose sight that-- how do we mitigate it for the future I think is the biggest thing without going into
the specifics of it.
So I'm all on board on it. I'm not sure if, staff, if you wanted to offer anything, Ms. Johnson, in regards to
the issue being raised or not,
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, thank you so much, and I appreciate the opportunity to opine on this
matter. I think one thing that we're all aligned on is that we can plan to the ultimate scenario, but
recognizing that delivering transit service is dynamic.
And I want to assure everyone that we do have standard operating procedures, especially as it relates to
special events. And I am 100% on board with what Vice Chair O'Keefe said as we look forward, because
we could Monday morning quarterback the demonstrations that took place over the weekend.
Quite naturally, I would just share that I believe the team did a yeoman's job. And we would do the same
thing again, because we have to ensure the safety of individuals, recognizing that we had people sitting in
the emergency command center, along with city and county of Denver personnel, DPD, police. And
decisions were made relative to the large throngs of pedestrians being in public rights-of-way.
And so I would say that's neither here nor there, because that's an anomaly. And I actually, in the interest
of full disclosure, had one of our police commanders that sent out a commendation to me and Chief
Martingano about everybody that was involved, and recognizing the information that was available to that
individual being the onsite commander basically was in alignment with shutting down DUS because of
what they were seeing on the ground.
And recognizing the whole aspect about the path forward, I would suggest that staff could put together
some various recommendations, because I want you to know that we do have COOPs, Continuity Of
Operation Plans, and things of the like. And we do engage with different event venues. There's an

undertaking that's going on right now where we are working in tandem with Visit Denver about the myriad
of activities that they have on their calendar. And how might we leverage RTD in such a way so we have
that information at the front end as it relates to providing means of transport to large-scale events,
recognizing that we do work in tandem with the event organizers at the major event venues as well?
So with that, recognizing that you all have constituents and you hear about concerns that are paramount
to them, I welcome the opportunity to garner a better understanding of what that is. I just want to ensure
that we could do it in such a way where we're not negating our ability to ensure that we are leveraging our
COOP when necessary, that it's not impeding our operation standards relative to anybody being in and
around a right-of-way.
And so that's what I would offer up. But it is this Board's ability to put forward various aspects relative to
what you all think are optimal and as it relates to anything operating in reference to the subject matter
expertise we have, especially with large events. I say that basically having worked in DC, and this was
something that we had to engage with on a quite regular basis. I do have some insight into that as we
move forward.
So welcome those thoughts. And whomever you deem appropriate, Chair Bouquet, to liaise with the team
and I, we welcome the opportunity quite naturally, because we want to ensure that when we set out to
take someone somewhere that we can ensure that they have a return trip.
And I think these recent events basically may have given RTD a black eye from the service delivery
vantage point. But I think it gives us a shining star as we ensure that people were safe in and around our
facilities and our rights-of-way. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, GM CEO. Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yeah, I mean, I think the thing for all of us to keep in mind is-- to paraphrase Mike
Tyson, everyone's got a strategy until they get punched in the face. And that is-- I know that's the kind of-that COOP would probably address that.
But I think looking forward, if we can make sure that all that is vetted with the current venue managers-they might be different. They change their-- Empower Arena is going to be an evolving place. It won't look
the same every quarter or so as they start building it out, so that's going to be a new challenge for us
again.
So I would love to have a-- how things work perfectly, how we staff up, how we communicate it, what
shortcomings we have, and technology or communication tools with people, and understanding that in the
end, our best laid plan is probably never going to perfectly fit.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. I just wanted to add, I think what you said, GM/CEO, is really correct, that on
a lot of levels, this was executed well. And it was responded to effectively, and we handled the mitigations
in a manner that was organized and all of that.
The problem was that in all of these cases, the expectations of the public didn't match up with what we
ended up doing. And so I think for me, the way I think about this is it really is two-sided. Either we change
the way we set expectations for people, or we change the way that we deliver service to match the
expectations that people have.

But we can't be at a point six months from now where people are getting dropped off and unexpectedly
having to walk for an hour in the sun. If they know they're going to have to do it, they know they're going
to have to do it. And sometimes that's what you're going to have to live with when it comes to public
transit.
But it's just a matter of making sure that we balance the needs and expectations of people with what we
can actually deliver. And then when those sorts of disruptions happen, especially if we think there's a
good chance that they will, hey, we may not be able to run a train as late as you would like us to after a
concert, or we may not be able to have our 30-minute trains-- we may have to drop a run if we don't have
enough operators, as we did with the Coldplay concert. Sorry, with the Nuggets game.
I think it's really about both understanding how we communicate that effectively, but also being really
clear about what we can effectively deliver. So I think we're doing a lot of things right. It's that last gap
between what we are doing and what the public understands that I think is where we're really having
issues. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. Well, thank you for the discussion. I'm glad that was able to be
brought up, and greatly appreciate all of your comments. All right. Moving on-- let me see. Apologies for
this. Any other matters we need to discuss at this point? Any other matters? Secretary? Oh, leftover
hand. OK.
Well, with that being said, our next meeting will be-- my apologies. I think we are-- let me [INAUDIBLE]. I
believe-- sorry, Mr. Kroll. What date is our next meeting? Could you remind me?
JACK KROLL: I believe it's Thursday, July 24.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. It will be Thursday, July 24. That will be-DEBRA JOHNSON: Just a point of clarification. It's Tuesday. We're meeting on a Tuesday, not a
Thursday.
JACK KROLL: The next Executive Committee meeting is Thursday, July 24.
DEBRA JOHNSON: My bad. I'm thinking Board. Let me hush. Bye bye.
JACK KROLL: But we will definitely all be back at it next Tuesday at 3:00. Yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: [LAUGHS]
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I'm confused. I don't even know what day it is.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Apologies. Our next-- our next regular Board meeting will be next Tuesday. Our next
meeting for the Executive Committee is scheduled for July 24 at 11:15. We're currently slated to talk
about Board office budget, our semi-annual conversation on Director requests, and review our
engagement activities year to date as a Board. And as always, we'll have our Government Relations
Report from Mr. Davies. I'll now entertain a motion to adjourn.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. And this meeting is adjourned as of 12:24 PM. OK. Thank you, everyone.

JACK KROLL: Bye, everybody.

