2023-07-20
Executive Committee Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: The Thursday, July 20, Executive Committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 12:00 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending the meeting to mute yourself
unless you're recognized to speak. I'll now call the roll. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am Chair Lynn Guissinger. Am also here. So all of our committee members
are here. I'm looking to see-- I see Director Ruscha has joined us. And that's all I see there. I see our GM
CEO, Miss Johnson, has joined us as well as a number of other staff, Miss Snyder, I think all of our
members of our Board Office-- Brian Welch, Michael Davies, John McKay. Welcome.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current or immediately preceding month. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
Are there any hands raised or public comments?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: There's no hands raised and no emails were received.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. All right. The first item on our agenda is the July Board Meeting
Agenda Review. Before I ask for a motion, there was a request to move two items from the Unanimous
Consent Agenda to Recommended Action. That request has been withdrawn.
I would like to move the fare structure item to Recommended Action, and I don't think we need a
presentation or any sort of long statement. Perhaps we could do it with Miss Johnson just making a very
brief statement. And it's just a chance to take a little victory lap to celebrate what I think is great news for
the agency. Does that sound good to everyone? OK.
All right. Any other comments any other discussion on the July Board Agenda as amended with that one
change? Do I have a motion to move the July Board Agenda as amended to the Board Meeting on July
25?

BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, just a quick clarifying question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Uh-huh?
BOBBY DISHELL: Are you saying we're moving both the equity analysis as well as the actual fare change
or just one of them?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I was just looking at the fare change. But I'm open to something different if-BOBBY DISHELL: Are we allowed to separate them?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So point of clarity if I may, Madam Chair. When you look at the agenda as outlined,
those are two separate items, keeping in mind that one could have not brought the fare structure full circle
if the Board hadn't acted on a fare equity analysis. So what I was seeking was clarification analogous to
what Director Dishell was asking. So I believe it's only incumbent upon this Board to move forward with
the extrapolation of the fare structure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: To move that to-DEBRA JOHNSON: Item F. Item F would be the only one under recommended action and not the equity
analysis. Because if something else happened with the equity analysis the fare structure would not be
coming full circle, just for everybody's edification.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That was my intent.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't think it's going to be controversial at all. Like I said, I don't think we need a
big presentation. But does that sound good?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I will be prepared to provide an opening statement, Madam Chair, if you all would like
to comment on the item. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. That sounds great. All right. With that, do we have a motion
to move the agenda forward as amended to the July 25 Board Meeting?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, so moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear First Vice Chair Catlin is the moveant, and Second Vice Chair Davidson as
the second. Are there any no votes on this action? Is there any discussion first, further? Any no votes? All
right. The motion passes, 5 to 0. The agenda is moved forward.
We have three discussion items on the agenda this afternoon. The first item is the monthly Government
Relations report. Mr. Davies, could you please present the item?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Hello, Chair, members of the Board. Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer. I just have a brief report. Starting with federal items and similar to last month's report, the House
and Senate Appropriations Committees are working through their annual federal fiscal year 2024

appropriations bills. The House Full Appropriations Committee passed their bill last week. The Senate
Subcommittee-- Transportation, Housing, Urban Development Subcommittee for Appropriations passed
their bill earlier this morning.
There are some stark differences between those bills. Also, as noted last month, the House bill contained
about a 25% cut from the fiscal year-- federal fiscal year 2023 numbers. Most of those funding cuts are to
just a couple of the programs. One of the key programs is the Capital Investment Grant Program. And just
for edification there, that is the program that is funding the East Colfax BRT project, and what East Colfax
BRT is working its way through.
That bill cut it down to $392 million. And that's a big, big cut from last year. As compared to the Senate,
the Senate offers $2.45 billion, so quite a difference between the House and the Senate. I do want to
make sure you know that the sky is not falling on that number, because there is differences between the
way that the IIGAA, the authorizing bill, appropriated money in what they called advanced appropriations.
So regardless of that $392 million versus $2.4 billion, $1.6 billion is advanced appropriated for that bill. So
no matter what bill, the program still will have $1.6 billion plus either the $392 million or $2.4 billion. And,
ultimately, there will be negotiations between the House and the Senate to come out with a number.
The House does clarify in their committee report that funding for projects that are recommended in the
president's budget are fully funded. So in even that $392 million number, regardless of it being much
lower than the Senate, they do say they have accounted for funding that the President has
recommended. East Colfax is a recommended project in the President's budget. So just want to make
sure the Board knows that. Regardless, there will be certainly negotiations on that program.
One of the other big differences between House and Senate is in the past years there's been extra
funding for bus programs. These are the competitive bus programs for both facilities and for LoNo Grant
program. And the House provides $0 for that extra funding versus the Senate has $211 million in their bill
on top of the already authorized bipartisan infrastructure law funding that is for those programs. So,
again, there will be negotiations on how much kind of extra funding is allowed for those programs in the
end between House and Senate.
And then, lastly, one of the very popular grant programs out there is the RAISE Grant program. And as
Chair Guissinger mentioned, I believe, last Board meeting, the Highway 119 diagonal project in Boulder
did receive a $25 million RAISE Grant. And that RAISE Grant program, while it is eligible for a wide range
of transportation projects and programs, transit is certainly one of the big elements of transportation that it
does fund.
The House cuts that to $0. Again, there are some advanced appropriated funds for RAISE. So it doesn't
mean RAISE won't be offered in the fiscal year 2024, but they don't provide any extra funding for RAISE,
whereas the Senate has about $800 million extra on top of the advanced appropriated funds. So, again,
there will be negotiations between House and Senate on that key and very popular program throughout
the country.
That wraps up my report on federal. Moving to the state, as you know, General Assembly is out of
session. So there's little activity. We have been working closely with the Transportation Legislation
Review Committee. They are holding their first hearing on July 24. The topics for that hearing were just
announced. And that is Non-Consensual Towing in Crime Victims' Motor Vehicles-- so not really transit-

related related-- and then also Freight Railroad Safety. So those are going to be their topics for that first
July 24 hearing.
The following meetings are August 21 and October 3, and we're working closely with the staff. And our
RTD does anticipate participating in those hearings, as well. Moving down to the local section quickly-- as
you all know, one of the programs that RTD has worked closely with our local governments on is really
standing up the Call for Partnerships Projects Program and working with our Planning Department.
We are holding the Subregional Service Counsil meetings this week and next week, and that largely is to
talk through the applications that were just submitted from the subregions around the RTD district on
those projects that were submitted. And key next steps is really having the staff from each of those
subregions kind of select their appointees to really go through and prioritize certain projects for those
subregions.
And just as a last note, the next Metro Mayors Caucus meeting is August 3. And staff looks forward to
participating in that, as well. With that, that concludes my report, and happy to answer any questions.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much, Michael. I see first Vice Chair Catlin's hand.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Michael, for your report. I'm just curious and
very interested to see what applications were received for the subregional councils. I don't know if there's- it's not like our procurement process necessarily, is it, that maybe we could just get an idea of the level
of interest in these subregional councils, and who has submitted, and for what projects. Because I'd be
interested to see if there were any from my area.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair-LYNN GUISSINGER: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly. So, Director Catlin, have yet to hear what projects have
been submitted, and am meeting with the team later this afternoon. So once we get that information and
synthesize it, we will work on a manner in which we can communicate that out, recognizing that we are
utilizing the same process that's very analogous to DRCOG. We don't want to disseminate information
without ensuring that the folks that are going to be reviewing applications have said information.
So I just wanted to frame that for you as we go forward. But, yes, when we go through those steps, and
once I talk with internal staff relative to how we're doing this and notification of the representative from the
service councils, more than happy to share that information in some form with you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent. I don't want to compromise the process at all. I'm just curious. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. No, I appreciate that. I, too, am. So we'll go from there and figure out the most
conducive way that we can share that information with you all without jeopardizing anything or getting
people riled up like, why not me, you picked them. That's the only thing.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thanks very much. I think a number of us would appreciate that. I see that
Director Guzman has joined us. Hi, Michael. I don't see-- just checking to see if there's anyone else. OK.
Thank you for the government update.
We have a couple of items that are potential changes. The first one is listed as a potential bylaw update.
It could be that. It could be an operating guideline. I'm not sure we have a start time-- in fact, I don't think
we do-- for our meetings in the-- in the bylaws. But we'd like to have a discussion about whether to set a
standard ending time for our regular Board Meetings.
And don't have a preconceived notion in this sense. It could be that we set a full length of time for any
meetings. It could be just for our Board Meetings, and just set an ending time, something like 10:00 or
10:30. Other public bodies have elected to set a time for adjourning. And there would certainly be the
option in any proposal too, that the Board could vote to continue it, to carry on with the conversation.
I think the idea that-- for instance, I think Marjorie sent us some language that Golden has. I think Golden
has an ending time at 10:00 unless they vote to carry on. I think theirs goes till 10:30 unless a
supermajority votes. Boulder has an ending time of 11:00. All of them, again, allow the Board or Council
to continue the process and waive that ending time. Fort Collins, I think, it's at midnight.
So the question comes up. And, obviously, last month's was a longer meeting. It's not that started the
conversation. It just sort of brought back up a conversation that we've had before. So I'm looking for a
discussion of whether you like the idea, what you think would be a good way to approach it. And then we
would work to bring something back to you in September that kind of reflects the thinking. I see Director
Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Likely no surprises here that I'm a proponent of this. I think at a certain hour we're not-we are making decisions that do carry weight, and after a certain time I just don't think that we're fully
focused. I'll speak for myself. I can say I'm not fully focused after a certain hour.
I think maybe it's looking at service schedules and looking at-- since a number of people take transit to
get to these meetings, looking at service schedules so that, hey, you have at least three or at least four
runs-- or runs is probably not the right term, but you have at least four scheduled opportunities to get
home. Maybe backwards planning it that way-- I think 10:00, 10:30, 11:00, anything in that sort of time
frame makes sense unless that directly contradicts my prior statement, which is the last four scheduled
opportunities to get home.
And I think, to that extent, we need to think about if you need to transfer, as well. That's not just us, but
that's the public, too, who might be coming to the meeting. But I certainly think it's a strong idea. I think
working out how to table and untable an item under Robert's Rules is something to think through, but not
an insurmountable task.
And then I think it's a matter of working out our agenda and prioritizing the agenda such that we can move
forward appropriately. I know Denver's City Council-- if we know it's going to be a tight meeting, I know
Denver's City Council has certain Mondays of the month that are-- it is a dedicated meeting for public
comment, which is not to discourage public comment but to say, hey, we have parameters here on our
timing.
If we know it's a big agenda, we know we need to get through business, can we just have a dedicated
public comment night, whether that's the Monday immediately before or whatever the case might be, but

finding a way to make sure that the business that needs to get done gets done, and sort of reordering
things to still honor those important portions of the meeting, but making sure that we can get it done in the
time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. And you correctly stated the goal, which is that we all are here
wanting to make good decisions. Not to say we don't after that, but it gets harder for everyone as the
night gets late. So thanks for your thoughts. Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I couldn't agree more with Director Dishell and the
sentiment of this. Just to express my support, I think this is the right thing to do. I have one question, and
just two comments to make. I think there's an opportunity in this to come-- for this to help be a forcing
function to come correct to meetings. And I think that's incumbent upon this committee here to help
structure the agenda in such a way that if we have really pressing issues where the decision needs to be
made at that particular Board Meeting, we make sure to prioritize that early in the evening.
I think it also encourages Directors, for any kind of discussion or things that might get complex, to have
thoughts well-organized and shared in advance of the meeting. I think sometimes having a cap forces you
to come with that level of organization. And then, just to second what Director Dishell said, I think we
need to have a good mechanism in place for how we table and untable. And, of course, that exists in
Robert's Rules, but I'm more just functionally in the understanding between us as Directors as to how we
do that.
And the question I had was really to see if Miss Johnson would like to comment on this. I think there's a
massive staff impact on this. And I know that, Miss Johnson, you've been extremely generous with your
time, and the staff's time. And everybody's there and willing to participate. And I think we found nothing
but tremendous partnership from staff and patients in being there.
But given that this has a large staff impact, I'm wondering if, Miss Johnson, you have any comments to
make about ideal timing, any recommendations you might have around end time, and whether there's
implications on staff morale. Again, not asking for any specifics or any specific individuals, of course, but
wondering if you have any general comments or recommendations on this from the staff side.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may-LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly for the question, Director Davidson. In the interest of being
very transparent, yes, the Leadership Team and I have had conversations because recognizing when we
do have committee days and Board Meeting days, that these days end up being 14 or 15 hour days for
us. Oftentimes, following on a Wednesday morning, there's individuals that I know on my team that have
a standing meeting with a critical stakeholder at 7:00 AM.
So, yes, there is burdens that are placed on staff because we want to be our best selves and do the
people's work. What I would offer up for consideration is instead of an end time, recognizing that the start
of a meeting could vary relative to having a special Board Meeting or some other meeting that may come
full circle, that you may want to qualify the time period in which a meeting lasts.
So say that we will handle the people's work within a four hour window-- right? So regardless of the fact if
the meeting starts at 9:00 AM in the morning, if it's a committee meeting, that there is time. Because quite
naturally we are trying to adjust our schedules. And we recognize the critical work of this agency as we

provide a public service. But assessing, as we go forward collectively as an organization, what might be
in the best interest-- of course, we want to have public participation. Does it make sense to have public
participation at the beginning of the meeting and also have public participation in the middle of the
meeting, say if it were this body's desire to change the start of meeting times?
As we know, I've gone to city council meetings, committee meetings that start in the middle of the day.
And so as we look at all of these, there's a lot of different factors to take into consideration. So I would
offer up let's not just focus on an end time because we know the meeting starts at 5:30 today, but quantify
the period of time in which we should be conducting the people's business, and ensuring that there's
ample opportunity for vigorous participation by those stakeholders and the general public. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. Thanks. That was good reminders. I see two more Board hands. Jack Kroll,
did you have something to add on that question or others?
JACK KROLL: I just wanted to address a couple of concerns that came up from Director Davidson and
Director Dishell regarding tabling items. My recommendation is if this were to be something enshrined in
the bylaws we could simply include a provision that, by default, any unsettled business is immediately
carried over to the next meeting. And the Chair would have the ability to just place that on the agenda.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, thank you. I would just like to share my experience with this. And I apologize to
you if I already have to you as a group or individually. But when I was Mayor, Golden City Council did
pass a time limitation on their meetings. And as an attorney who billed by the hour, I was really against it
thinking if you're all there, you're all prepared, just power through. You can do it.
It passed in spite of my feeling that it wasn't a good idea, but it turned out to be a great idea. As Director
Davidson mentioned, it was not that the subsequent meetings were the same and then they just were cut
off. The meeting itself changed. Without any true discussion, people did become better prepared with the
recognition that there was a time limit. So I'm really in favor of it.
And I think CEO Johnson's idea about a time period would also be something we should consider.
Because our meetings do start at many different times. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. So that raises a couple of thoughts. One is are we doing this for
all our meetings. I suppose I don't think there are many that would go this long. But it seems like following
Miss Johnson's suggestion, that would be a reasonable thing to do. My thought would be looking at the
main meeting, the Board Meeting, I probably wouldn't be inclined to go sooner than 10 o'clock, which
would mean 4 and 1/2 hours. But if you have comments on that, that's just my leaning. Let me know if
that sounds like a reasonable time period. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I agree with Directors Dishell, Davidson, and Sloan. And also, I think
Miss Johnson's point about having a time period rather than a set time is probably appropriate. And I do
think that if we have a time limit, that Directors will be motivated to come to the meeting prepared.
But I just wanted to state the obvious. Just because we have a 10 o'clock time cut off doesn't mean we
have to go to 10:00. We don't have to necessarily fill in all that time. And I would certainly be happy to end
the meeting sooner than 10 o'clock if we were able to get our business done. That's all I have to say.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Very good point. We'll try not to do that. Director Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I do apologize if there's background noise, because I jumped out of work to jump on
this meeting. I have a concern as a new Director, and sincerely as a new Director, about this particular
change. And it's just mostly in making sure that we have an opportunity as a public to speak, and that we,
as a Board, have an opportunity to engage in the proper type of discourse, debate, discussion,
conversation regarding the issues that are in front of us.
It seems to me that we're limited in that communication right now in how we can do it. And the best
opportunity that I've seen for us to get together and do that work is at the Board Meeting, even though it
gets a little confusing. And so just if we do this change-- other bodies that are ending at specific times are
probably doing several readings of a legislative piece and having time to consider it, having other
meetings to get public feedback.
Will we be afforded the same opportunity to ourselves so that we can discuss those matters and come
well-prepared to the meeting? Reading is one thing. Forming an opinion, asking a question, finding out
information, but doing that in the collegiality of the Board is really important. And I'm not sure how this
helps or hurts that. So I just pose that to all of you as we're considering this, because I don't know what it
looks like. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. And I'll call on Director Davidson in just a minute. But my thought on that is
that we actually-- it's not that often that we go later than 10:00 or 10:30, or that length of time. And I think
those are very good comments. I don't think there's any sense here of wanting to stifle discussion or cut it
off.
I think if there are certain things that still need to be decided, I assume Miss Johnson would be speaking
up that she needs a decision on something and the Board would stay. And there may be other situations
where the Board would stay and want to extend the discussion. And I think your point is well taken about
some other groups that have first reading, second reading. And many things now are coming to us as
discussion items.
I think Miss Johnson has changed that process some to bring us those things. I don't know if you have
any comments on that, Miss Johnson, but I think that-- I think people are finding that to be a really helpful
process. Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, thank you very kindly. And I appreciate Director Guzman's
question relative to having participation. That's why I offered up there could be two public comment
periods, so people would have an understanding when they could offer up information. And further to the
point, we have been trying to do our best relative to engaging the Board on matters, so you're not hearing
about something the first time and then asked to react to that.
Recognizing that we may have the operational subject matter expertise and you guys are looking at it
through a policy lens, we are trying to ensure that we're giving you ample opportunity to engage with staff
to get information that clarifies any type of matter which you may have a level of unfamiliarity. And if
there's anything that I and my team can do, please don't hesitate to reach out to me, which I know several
of you that are assembled on this virtual platform have done.
So I just want to say that we're amenable to that because this is important. We do people's work. We
provide a public service. And we want to ensure that we understand and are empathetic to whatever pain
points, other issues that may come down the pike. So thank you very much for broaching that, and that I
am 100% amenable to adjusting if, in fact, we find this to be problematic.

What I will say just since I have the privilege of having the floor right now-- all of us are really engaged in
reference to what we do. But we are doing a lot with less. And if anything, working 15-hour days we can't
do our ultimate best when we're trying to do the people's work. So that's the genesis, I believe, of the
discussion at hand. Because we're going to be tired and lose sight of what we're actually trying to do,
because we may not be at 100%.
So I just want to qualify that, for those that may be listening that go back and look at this recording, that
by no shape or form are we trying to diminish the importance of what we do. But we want to have caliber
work that we are putting forward. And it just lessens itself when we have been working for 15 continuous
hours. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. That's great. Did you have a follow up there or a different question?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just a comment really quickly. I fully understand, and I am empathetic to long days.
We also, as Directors, some of us are working full-time jobs and then going to the Board meeting and
staying late. If we have a meeting that runs past 10 o'clock, I have to be up at 3:00 in the morning to be at
work on time the next day. So I feel it, and I understand it.
I am really sincerely concerned that out of our training came the idea that during the meetings that's when
we're supposed to engage in a public discourse of whatever we're dealing with. And I don't want to lose
that opportunity for transparency as a member of the Board. So that's really all I'm saying.
But I do respect and I understand that everybody's time is precious and valuable. And we do need to get
rest, because we're not at our best if we're not rested and well aware. So thank you for having this
conversation. I appreciate it, but just worried. Right? I can proceed but I'm worried. And I want that to be
known. That's all. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I appreciate it. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to address Director Guzman. Thank you for the
concern. It's important given that these are-- many of the decisions we face are very important decisions.
I was going to highlight something that has already been a little bit touched on. But as the Chair and Miss
Johnson alluded to, we've had quite a few things come in as discussion items, particularly through
committee.
And I would point to recent things in Finance and Planning as an example, where a number of financial
transactions, particularly those that are sizable or more sophisticated, have come before the committee
twice as discussion items and then come in as recommended actions. And so my recommendation and
my thought on this, along the lines of your comment, is this is yet another opportunity.
When we moved to small committees, we committed to do more high quality Committee Chair Reports at
the beginning of our Board Meetings, and really leverage those to catch up our colleagues on what
happened in committee. And I think this is just another point to emphasize the importance of those report
outs. Because
I think taking Finance and Planning or Performance Committee, for example, or what we experienced
with Audit-- there's an opportunity for the Chair of that committee to flag, hey, we had a discussion item.
It's going to involve something that has a lot of moving parts. I would encourage members to attend the
next committee meeting if they have questions or as this coming as a recommended action. So a long-

winded way of saying I think it's just a good reminder for the committee chairs to come very organized
with those reports on items that Directors need to hear about.
And then, to a point that Miss Johnson, I believe, was alluding to, the other thing I wanted to just say is, if
the time limit-- if we set a time limit-- and I do really like the idea of a duration as opposed to an end time.
If we set the duration and something's not working, we can always revisit it, as well. And I would say a
primary reason to say it's not working is if we feel like discussion is getting stifled or information is not
there. So, Director Guzman, thanks for coming and sharing that. Those are just the additional
perspectives I wanted to share.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. And Director Guzman, thank you for sharing. I think one idea that no has
been talked about before is we've talked about study sessions. But I think another opportunity for the
Board is workshops, especially where there are items where we know there's going to be a number of
changes and people do not want to get sort of tripped up on the amendment to the amendment to the
amendment type of issues. Right?
And I know there's discussion of, well, that should primarily happen in committee. But there's also sort of
an idea that we are a full Board, and there are opportunities where-- code of conduct is one, bylaws
changes is another, where we really would benefit from more of a workshop. Let's tweak the language.
Let's get this right.
I think it's typically known when that's going to be an item. And maybe that means if we know that it's
going to be an item on the Tuesday, maybe that means the Thursday before or whatever the case might
be-- pick a day-- that allows us to come together and really workshop language, and think through issues,
and create consensus, and build coalition around ideas that isn't so constricted by Robert's Rules.
Maybe that's-- and this is just really shooting from the hip-- maybe that's, hey, if we know something's
coming we proactively set a workshop, or it's an opportunity to say, hey, if five Directors want to workshop
a specific item, we'll workshop that item. You make it a high enough threshold that it's meaningful, but not
a low enough threshold.
I think more than three is probably appropriate. I think less than a majority is appropriate. I guess there's a
few numbers that we have to choose from. So that would be the other thing I would raise, is really that
opportunity to have that more meaningful engagement with each other, which would then help the Board
meeting be more efficient and, I think, frankly probably help accomplish more people's goals.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. You know, I appreciate that. Because one thing I've had on my list is to talk
about what sort of study session, or it could be called a workshop. There's several things, I think, that are
coming up that may be appropriate for that. So I will be working with staff to get something scheduled or
at least discuss it. Miss Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm trying to start my video and it will not let me, so I
apologize.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: My Zoom freezes when that happens. Can you still hear me?

LYNN GUISSINGER: We can hear you. Yeah, you're fine.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. I just cannot see the screen. All right. Director Dishell touched on what was
about to say, actually, is that I think we have tools in our toolbox that we're not using right now. And I
personally-- I mean, I have hesitation on setting a time certain that we will adjourn. I think it's fine to have
something be aspirational for the purpose of holding an effective meeting. But I could certainly see how
that could be weaponized.
But we do have Robert's Rules. That solves, I think, almost everything that folks have raised. A Chair can
call a special meeting. We can certainly reduce what happens before we get to business. Our last
meeting had a lot going on before business even started. And we could benefit from study sessions. I
believe, in our governance documents, it states that we will schedule them at the beginning of the year.
And we have not even had one yet. We could get a lot done in those.
And I really like what Director Dishell said about having a workshop. Nothing precludes us from having-provided we follow open meeting laws-- an open meeting saying I'd like to work on this resolution. And it's
noticed, and everyone is invited, and here is the language. Director Sloan mentioned or perhaps it was
mentioned-- I'm sorry that Director Sloan had shopped around some language on this topic.
I haven't seen it, so I can't-- I don't know what it says. I get the concept. But that would have been a
wonderful opportunity for us maybe in the future to continue to talk about this. This has been mentioned,
and I'm just-- I want to stress I really think we need to be careful about how this looks to the public. Not
only does the public expect-- and we have set rightfully the public expectation, we're a public body doing
public business. But we have many members of our public who do not have the luxury of going home at
10 o'clock because they're working.
And so I think we need-- I just really want to caution our language. In the past, we have had Directors say
I want to go home now. And I understand we're human. I understand where that's coming from. We're
tired. Many of us have day jobs and other responsibilities. But I just want to caution how that might sound
to those who are listening.
And then, finally, a concern-- an unintended consequence that might arise from something like what is
being proposed is executive session. I would really be concerned-- and I understand we all think we're
reasonable. But I would really be concerned if we closed executive session early because we set an
arbitrary time, and there were individuals who still needed to understand something from Legal Counsel
or get their questions answered that were under executive privilege because some folks wanted to go
home.
That would really impact our ability to do our jobs as Directors. And so I just wanted to flag that. So
however this goes forward, I just ask that we just be very considerate for those issues that might arise.
And if we do look to amend our Board governance documents, that we do a workshop or a study session,
and that we take the time that I think would be required and make sure everyone is included in this
process, and perhaps even while we're at it-- because there are some things in our governance
documents we're not currently following-- clean up a few other items, as well, if we do decide to move
forward with this proposal. Thank you for the opportunity to chat.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Those are good comments. I have a couple of thoughts. One of the city
council language resolutions or rules that I've seen specifically mentions that they would finish the item
that's before the council, whether that's an executive session or another item. So you're not just cutting

the item off. The time limit becomes something that you deal with after finishing that. So that's a good
thought. That may be something we want to include.
Again, we want to keep in mind that the idea is to make good decisions, and that this is an effort to make
sure people are still making their best decisions, that staff is being respected, and all of those things. I'm
hearing the requests. I've been, as I said, wanted to work on study sessions. Maybe we look at these.
One thing Jack Kroll and I have started doing, is looking at the governance documents, the guidance-- the
Board Operating Guidelines. And we looked at those a little bit last year, Secretary Sloan and I did. And
so there are a number of things as you point out, Director Ruscha, that need to be looked at. They say
that we should look at those-- those guidelines say we should look at them annually, so we are doing that
now. And maybe what we'll do is pull together a workshop type of study session. I think our guidelines talk
about study sessions, but it can be a workshop, to look at a number of those sorts of rules.
So anything else? All right. I'm going to move on. We have a second discussion item around
amendments, and potentially putting something in the Board Operating Guidelines. Again, we don't have
a particular concept in mind. There are other ways to get at these things. But there are rules. I think in
other places the legislature talks about-- I haven't seen that rule yet, but apparently has that a multi-page
amendment or a set of amendments have to be turned in. I think it's 24 hours before they're being heard.
So the idea is that people get things well in advance. So I'm looking for a comment on whether we should
move forward with something to define-- it could be substantive amendments. The tricky part here is, of
course, that as amendments come up-- ideas for amendments come up in meetings or as people-people sometimes can't get to their packet until late. We're not trying to stifle those. We're just trying to
set up a system so that they're given the reading and consideration that we think they all deserve. So
comments? Questions? Dr. Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. This is one that I think we can get to, I think, in the abstract. I'm not the
biggest fan. I think one of the ideas sort of running, because I do think sort of that important public robust
discussion is good. I think the way it's currently structured is we sometimes don't have-- or we maybe only
have one full business day if the packet's published Friday afternoon or Friday day or even Thursday
evening. You really only have one to two business days to review it in full.
Is there an opportunity to-- if our committee meetings are always the second week of the month, is there
an opportunity by the Monday of the third week of the month to publish a draft packet that people can look
at? And then that gives you at least a week and change to then-- obviously, everyone understanding that
it's a draft, but it at least puts language out there that people-- everyone can react to.
I think, absent that timing mechanism, it's tough. The other side of that is we should be able to look and
see how people voted in committee and know what's coming forward and know what isn't. But I think my
biggest concern with it is the timing. And I think, probably at the Chair's discretion looking prospectively, if
people come up with ideas or communities come forward, I think we can get there.
I think it's just a matter of how do we-- similar to the duration or time cut off, how do we make sure we
have the other supports to allow for public robust discussion, to make sure people aren't being stifled and
we're not rubber stamping, but to also be more efficient and to allow for more discussion and definitely
open to others' ideas, as well? Those were just some I had had about opportunities to get language-- the
whole packet language in front of people earlier so that they would have more time to then draft an
amendment should they so choose.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I don't know if you have any response to that, Miss Johnson. I know that often
we're pulling packets together and, I guess, requesting at least a draft packet earlier. I'm not sure if a draft
packet-- well, I guess I'm asking you. But it's a public thing, so it's kind of something we want to have
close to where we're wanting to consider it. So Miss Johnson-DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Madam Chair, yes. Recognizing that the information that is presented to
the Board starts contingent upon what it is. So let's use the Public Transportation Agency Plan.
Recognizing that we're working with a myriad of different entities, we're gathering information, we're
coordinating with our ATU partners and things of the like, it would be challenging for us to put together
something in advance.
I often have engagements with members of the team recognizing that we do have an understanding when
we need to bring contracts. Because we have planned those out, we may have an understanding about
our business resource plan and things of the like. But we start that process already well in advance.
Case in point, when we're looking at the September meeting. Just in two weeks, we are submitting those
items to go forward. So we've already had a four or five week preparation time. So I offer that up just to
garner a better understanding for all of you. Well, not garner-- to offer up better understanding for all of
you in relationship to what we're producing. Because when we're engaging, we have to synthesize
information that's gathered.
So we could brainstorm around what might that be. Because we do have a look ahead that may give you
an opportunity in working through the committee chairs. It gets back to what Mr. Kroll and I have talked
about, and more specifically has talked with committee chairs. As you plan your committee agendas for
the course of a year, you'd have an understanding of what's coming before you.
So we could provide a framework, potentially working with the committee Chair and the leadership team
liaison about what would be before you. But I would not advocate to disseminate information that could be
a public record when it has not fully been vetted or it hasn't been signed off by me, specifically
recognizing my responsibility as the accountable executive through the Federal Transit Administration's
eyes and other regulatory entities upon which we basically signed certificates and assurances. For I just
wanted to frame that for you. So thank you very much for the opportunity to offer that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. And I think it's a good point you're raising, Director Dishell. And
that's why I was saying we have to be balancing here the fact that people may not get to their packet until
late or they may, just in the conversation in the meeting, come up with an amendment. We don't want to
stifle that or the discussion at all.
I've also had the conversations with Miss Johnson Mr. Kroll about some sort of annual plan. Because staff
knows when the budget's coming and mid-term financial plan. So if we have those committee plans set
out in advance, hopefully that would help people kind of know what's coming. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Madam Chair. And General Manager Johnson, I think it was beautifully
said. And just to kind of piggy back a little bit on that, this idea of having plans, I think-- and I fully
recognize that CEO and General Manager Johnson, you had asked this committee, and we've had some
questions over what should come to the Board. And I fully recognize we still haven't given a very clear
and direct answer on that, which I still think is something that this committee and the Board needs to work
on.

So at the risk of throwing some additional mud in the water on that, going back to the comment prior on-with regards to the last discussion item, when I mentioned committee chairs there have been a lot of
things coming in as discussion items through committee. And I think there's an opportunity, if we have a
plan like, Chair Guissinger, you just referenced and CEO and General Manager Johnson, as well-- we
can gather what's important from the Board. Because the amendments are kind of solving a problem at
the end.
Here's this work. Staff has encapsulated priorities of the agency, followed all processes, whether it be
procurement or otherwise, moved through, and then brought it to the Board. And, Director Dishell, you
made a point about we don't want to rubber stamp because we want to make sure that we're putting
forward reasonable policy. But I think our strongest amendments that we've had have been in partnership
with staff. They've been based on feedback from Directors of where maybe things were slightly off the
mark.
So rather than being too focused on the amendments, I would say if we back up and say, well, during the
discussion item process the Board should just have a better communication and dialogue going forward
of what's important on a particular item so that staff can really capture that and encapsulate that. That will
kind of help alleviate a lot of those last minute amendments, as well.
So I may not be saying a whole lot with this other than just as things come to discussion items, as chairs
have strong committee reports, and if we're to build out these annualized committee plans, which I think is
really, really important, it gives us an opportunity for the Chairs to help gather things that are most
important to the Board on the front end, to make sure it's actually encapsulated in the recommended
action. So just a general comment of something for us all to be thinking about and cognizant of.
Otherwise, I'm very supportive of having amendments far in advance. I'll just speak personally that I need
to read, I need to digest, I need to understand. And it's hard to do that when there's too much all at once.
So anyway, thanks for allowing me to just expound on that and offer some comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Excuse me. Yes, this is a very valid concern. And the whole point of public comment
is to raise things that the Board and staff have not thought of. And it might trigger ideas from the Board.
But I don't want to exaggerate the need for a draft packet or because of our committee system.
I cannot recall anything that showed up in the Board packet that I thought, what's this. Where did that
come from? For instance, in this month's packet we're talking about fare structure. We have watched that
take shape for over a year. The service changes are brought to committees and then they're brought out
to the public. And only then do they come to the Board.
The code of conduct was there for months. So I don't see any need to facilitate last minute comments or
amendments. I think minor things might come up, but a rewrite is not the best way to proceed in the
public's business at the very meeting we're voting on something as an action item.
So, in sum, I'm saying our system pretty well offers the opportunity to think of issues and provide for
amendments prior to the meeting. I don't think it's too much to ask to have folks be prepared in the run up
to the meeting rather than the meeting itself. So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. Thank you. Director Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. As it relates to the amendments and public comment, we do get-- a
member of the public can say something, like as was noted, that could trigger a thought and might be
worthy of Board discussion, even though we don't dialogue. And I think, as it relates to how we do
amendments or whatever happened the last Board meeting, Director Guzman really hit the nail on the
head.
We do not have a readings process. And maybe an unintended consequence of going to the small
committee process, where only half of the Board can vote, removed an opportunity to put that into place.
So other city councils, I mean, that first and second reading plus the hearing at our committee is where
that workshop takes place. And we just don't have that process unless we're doing a phone chain, which
might violate open meetings laws, or we do something in a public meeting in the evening, which seems to
frustrate folks who might need or want to go home by 10:00.
And so, again, I think that-- I think that if our current process worked efficiently we wouldn't be having this
conversation. But it's worth having-- maybe in addition to our big Board Meeting structure, asking is our
small committee meeting structure working. Are there improvements we can make there to ensure that
folks can participate, get their questions in, and so that the business is still done in the public eye, but that
those regular Board meetings are as efficient as possible?
And I hope that made sense. But depending on the Chair-- it's really the Chair's purview if they're going to
recognize a non-member. And then, if a non-member wanted to offer an amendment in a committee,
they're not permitted to do so under our rules. And I understand why that is. It's for efficiency. But in
creating that process, we might have-- the one or two times per year when big stuff comes up-- made it
more difficult for ourselves. And so I wonder if that could also be part of our governance conversation.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The conversation there being on whether non-members can make amendments in
the committee or just, more broadly, the small committees both? Is that what you're asking?
JOY ANN RUSCHA: Yes, or maybe just taking just a holistic look back. Now that we've had the small
committee structure for a little while and it's crossed over two boards, how is it working? Are there
improvements that we could make? Perhaps it's really a Venn Diagram and not so linear in terms of
efficient meetings.
And then I would just say if there is a situation by which someone bringing a resolution or an amendment
would ask to just lay it over so there's more time, it doesn't have to be a rule, but that we just try to
recognize that request out of respect. I think that's happened in the past. That also might solve some of
the issues raised here when we are coming up against a time crunch. And I know that happened last fall.
I personally would have been OK with that last month. And, certainly, that's a tool we could continue to
use in the future that respects everybody's time.
And then, if I may, Madam Chair, and that would be my final comment-- I completely understand and
respect that we want to respect people's time. And I do think it goes both ways. I personally do feel a little
bit of pressure when I get a Board packet that's 420-something pages long, and that comes on a
weekend, and then my meeting is on a Wednesday. And so, no, I'm not going to be a Transportation
Safety expert overnight, and I won't be by the end of my term, either. And it's not expected of me.
However, that is a lot. And I think even this Board packet might hit 1,000 pages. And so where we can get
information out early, I think we should. Because that, I think, shows respect of the Board, as well.

This is essentially a volunteer Board. And it would certainly reduce the amount of questions, because it
will give folks more time to process and get some stuff out of the way. Or maybe I'm just a very slow
reader and need a few extra days. But I know that for me, personally, it would help if I had some more
information in advance when we know it's coming. And I understand sometimes that can't happen. But
when it can happen, I think it would help me, anyway.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Great. And I want to get your comments. I'll go and take your comments and
then I'll sort of summarize what I'm hearing, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wanted to echo what Director Sloan said. A lot of these
issues have evolved over time. And case in point, as she mentioned, the code of conduct was a long time
in coming. And Directors have had ample opportunity to read the materials, and I just think that-- I think
we need to recognize that during the course of our robust discussion or debate on a topic, it might
stimulate an amendment or a thought that a Director could bring forth at the meeting. But I think if we run
the meetings efficiently, that those will not be routine but rather an exception.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. Thanks for all of this conversation. I think it's been a really good
conversation. You know, what I'm hearing are several things, and it does seem like it's time to pull
together a workshop. It may be officially a study session, but to look at some of these things. And if we're
looking at Board Operating Guidelines, that I think we'll run into some other things that we may want to
bring to the Board to discuss.
So I'll work with Miss Johnson and Mr. Kroll, and try to set something like that up as we get into it. I think
that the annual plan idea for committee work could be really helpful. And part of that, hopefully, would
show that an item-- that this month is the discussion on the budget. That's not a great example because
we have several hits on it, but the discussion on an item before it comes another month.
A lot of these items-- I recognize the large packet issue. But a lot of these-- whichever ones of us are on
one committee, we would have seen those and been through the packet pretty thoroughly two weeks
earlier, which brings that size down. I do think sometimes they're nodding.
And so this is helpful. I think it does sound like people share the concern with having amendments, large
amounts of amendments, brought in advance or having a process for that. And we'll take that forward. Is
there anything else I'm missing from the conversation here? OK. Are there any other matters? Erik.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Chair. Just briefly-- I think a few left here is on the Performance
Committee. But I just wanted to touch on Performance Committee because there's quite a bit to get done
when we come back in September. As we discussed at the last Performance Committee Meeting, we'll
need to pass our compensation philosophy, and we'll be considering aspects of the salary range, as well
as performance evaluation. So there's still going to be some forthcoming communication. I just wanted to
flag for this group, given how important that matter is to the Board as a whole.
And I know I had mentioned at the Performance Committee Meeting that there would be some
correspondence going about soliciting the feedback from our fellow Board members. I do think that's
really important to happen in the next couple of weeks. I did have a chance to talk to Mr. Kroll about that
the other day. And there will be some forthcoming communication on this.
And, Director Sloan, I know I apologize. I've been less available for a lot of one on ones, but I'd really love
to engage just to talk about the committee and how to best get that position to go forward. So just one

way to say that's important and we have all that coming, and I want this Executive Committee to be
aware.
The second thing is I did want to bring up something that has come up as a risk, which is that our
committees all turn over annually. And the Performance Committee will turn it over in January. And I think
part of the challenge that we have had with Performance Committee, which is such an important function
for this Board at large, is that there's a lot of starting, and restarting, and visiting, and revisiting.
And there's going to be considerations with respect to our General Manager and CEO's contract, as well
as the performance evaluation process, where we need to bring some consistency. So I think what I
wanted to do is just open the door for not now, but if anyone has ideas please feel free to reach out and
share those with the Board Office or myself about maintaining consistency.
I'm very much reminded of what we faced with audit, that we had a similar dynamic of the way we
manage risk in the agency was subject to our continual turnover of the committee. And there are some
ways that we might be able to address that with external third parties to bring consistency. To some
extent, we benefited from the way we've structured audit.
I'll end it there. I just wanted to really flag for this group that I do think, having chaired the committee for
half a year now, that that is a big part of the challenge, is there's just starting, and restarting, and it
represents a fair amount of risk. And this current Performance Committee, and certainly I'm committed to
doing so, needs to make part of its task adjusting the governance in such a way that we can maintain
consistency across several years and across all boards. So thank you for that.
Just please reach out to me if you have ideas. It's kind of like audit again. So, Peggy, here we go in
thinking about how to build something that's consistent in the presence of having a elected Board that
turns over and a committee structure that turns over. So a familiar challenge, but suspect a very different
solution. So thank you very much. Appreciate the time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thanks a lot, Director Davidson. I think that that's another topic that has
come up a little tangentially even beyond the Performance Committee, of off election years does it make
sense for the Board to keep its committees pretty much the same, absent someone wanting to be in a
different one or something like that. So that could go into a workshop discussion, as well. It's a good
thought. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madame Chair. I just wanted to flag two things that perhaps our General
Counsel might want to weigh in on later on, as to not extend this meeting. But right now in the news we
have seen several more lawsuits regarding open meetings in executive session. And the case law on that
is changing and, I think, confusing folks.
This is my personal opinion. I truly do believe that other bodies who are finding themselves in the hot seat
took good advice from sound counsel, and just might find themselves in court with a differing opinion from
a judge. And so I would just caution everybody here. We've talked about workshopping amendments in
advance, sending around language, et cetera. Some of that might be confidential work product when it
comes to a CORA request. But we want to be very careful that we're not violating open meetings.
And then, as it relates to executive session-- this is just for me, personally-- as a new Board member, I
would personally just like a briefing or just a-- we had a briefing, but just another one or just a quick bullet

on what is and isn't permitted. Because, again, I do think that most of the time when bodies violate
executive session rules it is on accident. And I just want to look out for the good of the body.
And then, on a related note, we do have executive session via Zoom. However, if a person is not able to
attend an executive session because they're not on that committee, we have no way of accessing that via
Zoom. And it makes it difficult for us to catch up. Performance is one example.
And so I would just ask, perhaps this body might be able to take that up as a governance issue or
operating guidelines. The technology is the same. The security is the same. I do think if we can conduct
an executive session via Zoom, that a Board member could watch an executive session via Zoom if they
need to, so that they do not have to take PTO, or in some cases travel up to an hour to come down to
Blake Street to watch it. And so I just wanted to put that out there. And I hope that's something that the
Chair, GM CEO council, and this body could continue to work on.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good thoughts. Thank you. Just to be clear, when you mentioned documents going
around or workshop-- any workshop we're talking about would certainly be public. And the only
documents that-- the only thing-- I think you're referring to something from this meeting that Miss Sloan
sent me, and just the language from The Golden. It's not like anything has been going around.
But those are good reminders, and we'll be watching what happens with the Open Meetings Law lawsuit.
Anything else? Did you have anything else, Miss Ruscha? Is your hand still up?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. If there is nothing else, we are adjourned at 1:14 PM. Sorry to keep
everyone a little late, but this was a great discussion. And we've got some homework. Thanks. Oh, and
just as a reminder, we don't have a meeting in August. So our next Executive Committee Meeting is
September 21. Thanks. Bye.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you so much.

