2025-06-11
Operations, Safety, and Security Committee
IAN HARWICK: Hi, everyone. Welcome to the Wednesday, June 11th Operation Safety and Security
Committee. We're now going to come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM, and I would respectfully
ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting, we are
providing Communication Access Real Time Translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would like to
access the service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and
a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I am here.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Ruscha is absent. I am Director Harwick, and I am here. For the record, I see
that we have six of seven directors present. And we also have Chair Bouquet and Director Guzman have
also joined us. Right now, I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand
or press star-9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. Jack, do we have any comments at the moment?

JACK KROLL: Vice Chair Harwick, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this time,
we do not have any individuals present who have raised their hand in desire of providing public comment.
And in anticipation of your next question, we did receive one public comment in relation to the topics on
your agenda this evening. That is from Sarah Grant, Transportation Manager and Community
Development at the City and County of Broomfield. Their letter was directed to Director Benker, but sent
to the full board, and is in support of the proposed August 2025 service changes.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Thank you, Jack. I appreciate that. We have no external entities report on the
agenda for today's meeting. I personally have nothing to share right now, other than I'm going on vacation
next week. Thank you. And I will not be here for the full board meeting later this month.
We have no recommended actions, and there are two items for discussion. The first item is for paratransit
legacy customers. I would like to ask our General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson and Aaron Vallejo,
Acting Deputy Assistant General Manager, Bus Operations, to present this item. Are there any-- OK, here
we go.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Vice Chair Harwick. Greetings, all. I'm Debra Johnson,
serving as the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. I want to provide some context relative to
this agenda item that we have before you. During the course of the board retreat that took place in March,
there were several directors trying to garner an understanding of the paratransit program. But more
specifically, we are going to use the term legacy in this instance as it relates to eligible active paratransit
customers that were impacted when a decision was made during the height of the pandemic, relative to
service reductions due to unforeseen circumstances relative to stay at home orders and things of the like.
Recognizing the vulnerable population that this critical service provides to a customer segment, a
decision was made by the then-board, relative to a path forward. We wanted to ensure-- we, being
members of my team, in addition to the committee chairs-- that individuals were grounded in a path
forward. And we wanted to ensure that we were providing updated information relative to where we stand.
Moreover, I had had the opportunity to engage with committee member Kathleen Chandler in addition to
committee Chair Ruscha on this topic. Hence, that is why we are presenting this item at this juncture.
For all intents and purposes, this isn't a recommended action, but more or less seeking direction relative
to the full-fledged committee regarding a path forward, as stated. So with that context, I will yield the floor
to Ms. Vallejos to ground us all in this topic, as she was here during the time in which this was decided,
and I was not. So I think she is very well equipped at leading this discussion. Ms. Vallejos, the floor is
yours.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. Again-- excuse me-- Erin Vallejos, as introduced.
Acting Deputy Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations. So it is a short presentation today. We're
just going to quickly touch on the paratransit service area. We're going to touch on a definition of what
legacy customers was, as approved by the board back in 2020. And then we're also going to touch on
legacy customers in practice.
So this is probably something, the paratransit service area that you've seen before. But I did think it was
important, just grounding for this conversation. Again, for our access-a-ride paratransit service area, our
services for paratransit are provided within 3/4 of a mile of an area along non-commuter fixed route
services in alignment with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. And then the boundaries
themselves should be reviewed and updated following each fixed route service deployment. And again, I

think this is a map that everyone's familiar with, but I just wanted to make sure we were grounded in that
idea.
So next, we will go on to the paratransit legacy customer definition. And if I am speaking too fast,
someone let me know. I am trying to be cognizant of keeping it a good pace for the transcriptionist. OK,
so as part of the May 2020 service changes that were amended-- these were approved March 24th of
2020. And there were some service reductions that were being approved at that time.
So as part of those service changes, there was a statement that was added in. And this statement here is
pulled directly from the board report that was approved-- again, as amended. And so essentially, it
contains a commitment to our paratransit customers. It did use a different term than we are using. As you
can see here, it was referred to as grandfathering. But going forward, we are going to be referring to this
as legacy status.
But as you can see, looking at this, the decision was made that for existing access-a-ride customers in
area where all fixed route service was going to be eliminated due to the May service deployment, it was
recommended by staff that we continue to provide paratransit services to those customers. And as of
right now, if we were following that definition for the legacy customers, there are 81 customers. Not all of
them are currently using the service, though.
In 2024, 45 customers took trips using our access-a-ride service, and the average number of trips during
that time frame was 80 per customer. And then 18 customers took trips in 2024 on access on demand.
The average number of trips for that was a little bit higher. It was 139 per customer.
Now what I want to touch on is what the paratransit legacy customers in practice has been. And so
essentially what's been happening since this was approved for the May 2020 service changes is that the
fixed route service boundaries, as of January 2020, have continued to be the access-a-ride service
boundaries. So we haven't limited it specifically to customers, but it has been including the boundaries
themselves.
And this is a little bit inconsistent with what the Board approved, because as I read to you for the previous
couple of slides, it was specific to those customers that were active as of May 2020. Again, I just think it's
very important for the board to really understand what the practice has been and what the language was
back from the board report at the time. And then I will actually turn it back over to Debra. Like I said, it is a
relatively short presentation, but we just want to make sure everyone has the background for this so we
can have a really good discussion.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Erin. And reflecting on conversations that ensued last night when our
CFO was seeking budget guidance and there was a discussion relative to paratransit programming-- and
then, moreover, as it relates to this issue about legacy customers, recognizing that the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 complimentary service provides specific guidance relative to providing ADA
complementary service. We wanted to ensure that we were garnering a collective understanding from this
committee regarding the path forward.
So recognizing that we are bringing this to you this evening, upon working with the Committee Chair and
Committee Member Chandler, we are seeking guidance relative to next steps. Is this an item in which we
collectively are pursuing regarding any modifications? Considering the information that was put forward,
there's quite a few avenues in which we can leverage in order to garner that input. So I will yield the floor

to Vice Chair Harwick to facilitate discussion or provide direction relative to most advantageous conduit
on which we should use to garner that feedback, so thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, GM Johnson. Committee, do we have any comments or questions from you
all?
JACK KROLL: Director Harwick, I see a number of hands raised. Would it be helpful to you to help
facilitate those?
IAN HARWICK: I got it now. I was just on the wrong page. Director Buzek, I see your hand first.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks very much. I've got a question, maybe a couple comments. Can the same legacy
argument that applies to a geographic change here be made to a service level and service pricing change
to access on demand that is currently under consideration? Can those people say, we're legacy
customers. You need to continue to extend to us this ongoing service.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may?
VINCE BUZEK: Sure, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. Thank you for the question, Chair Buzek. So considering
that access on demand is a supplemental paratransit service and does not fall within the auspices of the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, considering it's complimentary, I would say that discretion is left
to you all. Because I want to be clear that we could carve out a paratransit program, but it wouldn't fall
within the auspices of what the guidance is provided for us as recipients of federal dollars providing fixed
route bus services.
VINCE BUZEK: Got it. Thank you very much. And just a couple comments, if I may, Mr. Chair. So I'm in
favor of continuing this legacy carve-out with regard to the presentation. So I had a chance to speak with,
at length, a former board member who's also an individual with a disability last week. And that person
made it abundantly clear to me that these services are really, really critical to individuals with disabilities.
And much like the access on demand, when you make changes to the service levels and the service that
they've been receiving, the impact on them is greater than you could ever imagine. And I trust that that is
true. I didn't experience that, but I trust that's true. So with regard to this issue-- and maybe later, the
other access on demand issue-- I'm in favor of continuing this legacy carve-out. Thanks.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes. Thank you so much, Ms. Vallejos, for this presentation. I know that you
worked really hard on it, and you answered a ton of questions when I had them at that meeting. And it
really helped me wrap my brain around this whole entire idea of legacy. I totally agree with Director
Buzek. This is paramount that we continue this. It's a very small number of people. And just by the nature
of time marching forward, that number will get smaller.
I do think right now, it is a little bit of a burden for the RTD staff to have to keep track of it, but it will get
smaller over time-- the number of people having to keep track of. But it is absolutely paramount to these
people that they be continuing in this type of program. So I wholeheartedly appreciate the explanation,
the work, and the vision that we are going to continue to bring to the people that really, truly do need this
service, so thank you.

IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Yeah, so I, to some degree, echo what Vince-- sorry, what Director
Buzek and Director Chandler said. I do think that there's a value in being able to serve legacy customers.
And as we do things like make changes to bus service, it's a reasonable question. Should we continue to
offer access on demand, for example, to customers within a certain bus shed after we've potentially
removed their bus service?
And so I think that there are a number of different types of legacy service conversations that, to Vince's
point, this touches on. I'm not in favor of an endless commitment. I think people move-- not everyone, but
the standard, I think, is every seven years or something like that. So I would rather us put in place a cap
of 10 years, for example. And that way, we can say to people, look, this is how long we're maintaining this
for. And then eventually, you do have to either relocate or whatever.
But there is a point, I think, that it makes sense not to be keeping somebody on for 25 years running a
service like that because it reduces our flexibility and it reduces our ability to-- and it creates additional
burdens on staff time for, admittedly, a very small population. But I think that there are limits to that. So
that's where I would come down is put a marker on it, but not like tomorrow.
IAN HARWICK: I'm going to send you a letter, Director Nicholson, that you have to move in 10 years.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK. I typically move more frequently than that, but yes, that's fair.
IAN HARWICK: I see Director Chandler and Director Whitmore. Go ahead.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I'm sorry. I have a quick question. I thought that we had decided the legacy
status only applied if they lived at the same address. So that would actually negate what Director
Nicholson was saying. If the person moves, then they've chosen to go out of that area. It only applies if
they're at the same-- unless I'm misunderstanding. So I would appreciate a clarification on that.
IAN HARWICK: GM/CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much. Thank you, Director Chandler. When we met, we had that
discussion. Hence, we decided that we would bring forward guidance. So this is the discussion, not a
recommended action.
And so recognizing what you said, that is something. At the end of this, we can consolidate the comments
and we can bring back a recommended action or perhaps provide options. So I do recall you saying that,
and that was spot on. But as we move forward, we will see collectively what we decide. But thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just wanted to say that I'm in full agreement of what Director
Buzek said, and I truly appreciate both the comments from Director Nicholson and Director Chandler, and
really appreciate her last question and comment that I think gets us maybe down the road to a point, or at
least a thought for our staff to add into their recommendation for later this summer, so thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so just to clarify-- yes, obviously talking about only the people who were on
the list back in 2020 as your starting point. But then saying to folks, look, we are going to phase this out in
2030. This is not a forever and a day promise. This is a up till this point. And giving people enough notice- and five years is a long time.
But I just think that you should never keep any legacy program around forever. I'm not a fan of that kind of
thinking, generally. So that's where I come down on this one, but yeah.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore, I still see your hand up. You have a follow-up?
TROY WHITMORE: My bad, I will put it down. Thanks.
IAN HARWICK: Oh, no problem. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I don't mean to hog the discussion, but this is a passion of mine. Actually, I
disagree with that, Director Nicholson. I would say that these people-- everyone eventually will pass on.
Let's be realistic. So this isn't something-- and there's such a small number. Why not allow them to have
this until they've moved on to the next opportunity?
I don't think that we should put a date on it because it's such a small number of people, and it really, really
is something that these people rely on. So it's going to have its own attrition just because of the nature of
what's happening. So I don't think this is something that's going to be around in 20 years or 30 years. This
is going to be a small number of people that are going to be having a service that is desperately needed
for this population. And it's such a small number, I would respectfully ask that we just allow this to just
naturally attrition out.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Quick question for GM/CEO Johnson. If, tomorrow, we were to remove
service from a location-- we were to cancel a line or reroute a line. Right now, we only provide service
within-- I think it's 3/4 of a mile of any RTD stop. Is that right? And I have a follow-up to that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Committee Chair Harwick, if I may? Just for point of clarification, you're talking about
a route, not a line. A bus route?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. So for all intents and purposes, under the American with Disabilities Act of 1990,
the complimentary paratransit program is 3/4 within a fixed route. So to answer your question, if there
were a service modification relative to the catchment area not being within 3/4 of a mile, pursuant to the
guidance, that service would be discontinued, not only for the individuals utilizing fixed route, but in turn, it
would mean for the ADA complementary paratransit service.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Right. Sorry, can I, director?
IAN HARWICK: Go ahead. Go ahead.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So then just for my own clarification, that means that if we were to remove service
from somewhere today, the people who live in that area would lose their paratransit service today. But the

people who've been getting it, even though we removed that service years ago, they would get to keep
having it in perpetuity.
So I guess my question is, how is that fair to the people who we would remove service from tomorrow to
say to them, you don't get any extension. We cut your service. It's gone. But these people over here, we
cut their service five years ago. And we're going to keep that ongoing forever. That's my question,
respectfully, for Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: May I respond to that?
IAN HARWICK: Sure, please.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Well, I agree, Chris, that it isn't fair. But it's also not fair to those people
because they literally had their service completely cut. At least there's a service change opportunity. Back
then, I believe it was completely cut off because of the pandemic. And I think there's a separate set of
circumstances that is surrounding the pandemic. Maybe I'm just a bleeding heart, which I'm sure that just
makes you-- anyway, I just think that for me, because those people had no notice, really-- it happened.
At least this way, we do have opportunity for people to plead their case for service changes. We have
adding a service change. We have subtraction of a service change. But I think for those particular people- and it is such a small number that I just think it's worth us being a little more compassionate towards
those groups. But that's just my personal opinion. So again, if that's not the consensus of the board, so be
it.
IAN HARWICK: All right. This is my last go around, Chris-- Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Yeah, I guess I would just say for me, I would rather have legacy status
for anyone who lost their service for a year so at least they'd have time to adjust to those changes than
preserve indefinitely legacy service for a small population who's already had it for five years. I understand
where you're coming from, and I love seeing you with a bleeding heart. It's definitely a new face for
Director Chandler.
But seriously, though, I just think that there is a point, and we only have so many dollars to go around.
And there are other people who get hurt, and I don't want to turn to them and say, hey, yeah, your bus
stop got cut. But these people over there, they still get to keep their thing because theirs got cut in a
slightly different way, and we are going to treat them differently. That's tough for me. But that's just where
I come down on this.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Anyone else? Anyone not on the committee have anything to opine about? CEO
Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much. Hearing no further comment, the team and I will work
with the committee members Chandler and Ruscha as it relates to a path forward, recognizing the input
that we received this evening and bring back a recommended action in September. What I do think would
be beneficial at this juncture, recognizing where we all sit relative to what we just heard, perhaps we
could provide some options that this board could deliberate, and we will go from there. So thank you very
kindly for the engagement on this matter.

IAN HARWICK: Thank you. All right. Our second and final item is for the August 2025 service change
recommendations. I would like to again ask our GM and CEO Debra Johnson and Jessie Carter, Senior
Manager of Service Deployment, to present these items.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly, Vice Chair Harwick. So we all know Jessie Carter, our
Senior Manager of Service Development. And recognizing that this agency, on a triennial basis, has three
service changes, it seems as if we're always in that mode to modify and enhance service continuously.
Recognizing that, we are bringing this item to this body, considering this is an iterative process, to put
forward draft options relative to the service change that would commence in August. And we'll then take
that information out to the public.
So without further conversation from me, I will yield the floor to Jessie, because this is a very exciting
service change where we are adding back additional revenue service hours and additional services to
areas that basically were adversely impacted due to the reduction in service due to COVID-19. And with
that, Jessie? Mr. Carter, the floor is yours.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. These recommendations for August is somewhat
typical of what we do around this time of year, looking toward the fall session, with schools going back
into session and other seasonal entities going back into the swing of things. We are looking to make
changes that involve implementation of more SOP items, which is something the team is very excited
about. Necessary rail reconstruction efforts, and this go-around, it is the Kalamath Rail Reconstruction
Project and improving system performance and reliability through schedule adjustments on both rail and
bus.
I want to talk about a little bit of the more notable changes, some of the ones that we're really excited
about. They include the extension of Route 6 to Aurora Community College, which is something that has
been requested for quite some time now. And we're happy to finally be able to do that. Also, we have the
reconfiguration of service on South Federal Boulevard, which is an SOP change and something that we
think will have a high impact, as far as ridership.
We also have the extension or increase in service frequency on the Route 135 out to Southlands from the
9-mile-- well, actually Smoky Hill and Piccadilly Park and Ride. Also, we have the increase the service on
the FF-2, the reintroduction of the FF-4, and also the reintroduction of the LX-2 providing service from
Longmont to Denver. I will say that in the board paper, there was a recommendation for the SOP-related
change on Route 38. We continue to do analysis on things as we move forward through the process, and
there is an issue with the terminal on Route 34 at 30th and Downing that we have to explore a little bit
further. That will probably be delayed until the next run, board, as far as recommendation goes.
With that, I want to say that our public process will move forward with meetings being offered on June
16th at noon and 5:30, and then an Ask Service Planner opportunity, which occurs on June 17th at 5:30
to 6:30 PM. With that, I will turn it back to GM and CEO Debra Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Carter. Just for clarity, while there was some language that was
used, i.e. terminals, that's critically important as we talk about where operators may end their runs and
then moreso can make relief and then use the facilities as well. So that's critically important-- recognizing
individuals being in their mobile offices and needing to have a break is captured in various aspects of our
collective bargaining agreement, and that everybody is entitled to have some break periods.

And moreso, speaking about route 38, quite naturally, as we have had discussions recognizing that RTD
doesn't have auspices over all arterioles and infrastructure and things of the like, we have to work with
jurisdictions to ensure that we have adequate amenities relative to delivering transit services, including
adequate stop areas, bus pads, and things of the. So I just wanted to provide a little more context relative
to some of those elements that we are working in tandem with our jurisdictional partners on.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you for that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome. So with that, Committee Chair Harwick, I'll yield the floor to you. Do
we have any questions? I see Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I want to say thank you very much, Mr. Carter, for getting the 135 over in
Smoky Hill up to every half hour. That is a huge opportunity for my community. Smoky Hill is actually the
southern boundary of my district, but I use Smoky Hill all the time. So that's going to really help that
quarter to have that now at a much better frequency, so thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you for the comment.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Mr. Carter, I was wondering if you could speak to-- so one of the
changes, obviously, is the removal of the H from downtown for a time in order to do the maintenance,
which as someone who lives a block away from that line, I understand and appreciate why we're doing it.
Obviously, that means that that line no longer has a connection to-- my apologies on my camera there.
That line no longer has a connection to the airport, the way that it's being-- direct connection, because it's
not going into downtown and it's not going to Peoria. And I was wondering what stops us from running it
past Metro Center all the way up to Peoria Station, given the fact that we're cutting down significantly on
the length on the other side?
JESSIE CARTER: Director Nicholson, it's an excellent question. And rather than use the term what stops
us, I'd say we have challenges and we have opportunities. And doing that would water down our
opportunity to make sure that our services are as reliable as possible. You noted that the route is actually
shorter, and because of that, we have more operator resources to dedicate towards doing pullback
activities and keeping our services on time.
We do have challenges at the US. It's a station that's designed for basically the W and the E Line to go
into it at 15-minute intervals. And we're adding the D line, which is still a 15-minute service, so that's why
we can't go all the way downtown with the H Line. That said, there are opportunities where the H and the
R line overlap one another to where someone can use the R line in the stead of the G line for direct
access to the airport.
So I think when we looked at that, we considered a number of different things. And as you also already
note, we have considered other patterns for the H line, which include going all the way up to Peoria
Station. But those were considered in replacement of the R line. So at this point, we're looking at the best
way to provide or maintain current service levels and providing the most reliable service that we can
provide. That's why we chose to basically reduce the length of the H line, if that answers your question.
IAN HARWICK: Go ahead, Director Johnson.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Just a quick follow-up to that. Are we at capacity for that final segment from Metro
Center up to Peoria? It's my understanding that that could hold four trains per hour, and I think we're
currently running the H only at two trains per hour. So I'm wondering if you have any thoughts on-- again,
if not putting back the H Line to use that, potentially how we would make use of that extra capacity to get
more service from Kathleen's district up to the Peoria Station and connecting people at higher frequencies
to the A line over there?
JESSIE CARTER: Sure. Chair Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Oh, please go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: If I can respond?
IAN HARWICK: Please go.
JESSIE CARTER: So with that, the line going north to Peoria does have the capacity to operate
additional services. As you already know, the R line, at one point in time, operated at every 15 minutesm,
so that was four trains per hour. So adding an additional two to four is possible. But the bigger question
for me is looking at ridership patterns and looking at the level of ridership currently in the past seen on the
R line, and whether or not it's a viable solution and whether or not it's the best way to extend the
workforce resource in doing that, rather than, again, having enough capacity to react to the need to pull
back or add additional operators to recover our system.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I would just say I appreciate the explanation. Also, just thank you so, so
much for bringing back the LX, as we've talked about six or seven times, and for improving the FF-2. I've
only been to Longmont about twice in my life because of the difficulty of connection. This is great. And
also the 6-- it'll be nice to get out that farther into Aurora. So the service changes overall are awesome.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Guzman, I see you, but I see CEO Johnson. I'm going to call her first and you
second.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly for this opportunity. And I just want to iterate, Mr. Carter does
a yeoman's job, but I'm going to take privilege right now and say that it's been a collective effort as one
RTD because we are a people intensive organization and we have had tremendous success as it relates
to recruitment, retaining, and having a laser-like focus. I know a comment was made about maintenance.
We are doing more than maintenance. We're trying to ensure that our system is in a state of good repair.
This is an asset renewal so we can capitalize on the investment the taxpayers have made for future
generations. And so I do just want to state that because maintenance is one thing, this is a full-fledged rail
reconstruction that we are doing for the sustainability of our network.
And I know Mr. Jensen has come on camera, and I wanted to ensure, as our modal lead of rail, that he
had an opportunity if he wanted to provide some more context relative to what we're doing. Because
discussions were had about trains, and I'm not certain-- I was a little confused if we were talking about the
number of cars on a train, or are we talking about [INAUDIBLE] so I think it's best that I yield the floor to

Mr. Jensen. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Harwick, for allowing me to do so. Mr. Jensen, the
floor is yours.
DAVE JENSEN: Thank you very much. I am Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager of Rail
Operations, and I did come on camera to support Mr. Carter, who admirably explained everything better
than I could as it related to schedule. I would add that we looked extensively at what the best case
scenarios would be. We made a commitment. It is our deep desire to not reduce our headway pattern.
We want to provide the most amount of service with the greatest likelihood of success.
And when we did the evaluation of our capacity at Union Station, we're talking about the difference
between-- all train lines to Union Station, we're talking about 16 trains an hour, which gives the trains
about 3.75 minutes to turn. The reality of that is the train has to enter the station, everybody has to
deboard, we have to bring it into the tail track, we have to pull it out of the tail track, we have to get an
operator onboard, and that's just too tight. We couldn't be confident that we would have a high level of
success.
But by reducing the number of trains in the Union Station by running three lines into there, that's 12 trains
an hour, giving us five minutes, and we think that's very doable. So that analysis started to drive what
were the decisions necessary for us to be able to make sure that we could run the highest level of
frequency and the highest level of reliability. And so that's why we came up with this. Where the locations
are that we can turn trains back vary depending on where the interlockings are where we can turn trains
back around. And Southmoor is the best location for us to be able to do that effectively.
To Ms. Johnson's point, however, there are a lot of factors that come into play that go beyond just the
scheduling of it and the operators. There is a lot of work that needs to be done. That work continues to go
on. It's ongoing now. So just because speed restrictions have been lifted doesn't mean the maintenance
of [? Way ?] crew in the evenings have stopped work. They're working every single night. And so we do
want to be able to maximize their time out in the field so that we can minimize the number of disruptions
that we ultimately have. And a lot of that was the thinking that went into the decisions that we made.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Mr. Jensen. Director Nicholson, I see your hand is still up. I don't know if it's
still intentionally still up or accidentally.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: It is, but let Director Guzman go first. He's been waiting.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. That was my plan. Director Guzman. You're muted.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. So I have a couple of questions about specific routes, but a real basic
one to start off with. There's three different service classes listed here-- Core, Community, and Connect.
Can you quickly define the difference between those for me?
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, so you're referring to, in the SOP, the new classifications for service-- Core,
Connect, Commute, and Community. So each of those have levels of service assigned to it. For example- and I don't have them all memorized yet, so please forgive me for that. I think when we look at our Core,
we're looking at service frequency of no less than every 15 minutes. We're looking at spans of service of
about 18 hours.

When we're looking at Connect, we go back to policy-type headway frequencies, which can go as wide as
30 minutes. But we're looking at service spans of, I want to say, 14 hours. And then when we look at
Commute, those are more relatable to Regional/Express type of services that operate primarily in a peak
direction, so those are allowed to be expressed differently, as far as span, and assigned to more
specialized timeframes or service spans assigned to frames.
Then when we look at Community, Community is looked at as-- and it's stated as being somewhat
specialized and tailored fit to a given community. But we do need to do a little more work on explaining
exactly what that means, because it's a bit ambiguous. And if I were to give you an example of two routes
that are in the Community category, Community could contain everything from the 16th Street Free Ride,
formerly known as the 16th Street Mall Shuttle, to a route like the 402-L out in Highlands Ranch, which
runs along Santa Fe Boulevard.
So those are very different in the nature of communities that they actually serve and have dissimilar
performance expectations. But right now, at this point, the Community category contains those two
routes. And I did want to specify that difference that's still out there at this point.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. Chairman?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. The 31, you've got a couple of different things going on with that. So on the
north end, it doesn't look like it's changing much, but it looks like it's going to overlap with the 30 once it
gets down south past Decatur to get into the south end. Is that correct?
JESSIE CARTER: That's correct, Director Guzman. And one of the things I should point out right away
with the 31, there's an unusual pattern. It's a hangover from a time long past, where 31 on Sunday only
has a 15-minute service. And we're replacing basically the moniker and moving that service under the 30.
So you'll see it disappear from the 31, but those trips will be available on the route 30.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Then I also have a question about the 38, which runs through a pretty heavy
business corridor in my end of town. And so I just want to make sure I understand it, because there's a lot
happening up here. It says here that it's going to terminate eastbound trips of 38 at 30th and Downing and
reintroduce the 34 through Bruce Randolph, which is awesome. So that means that this is just going to
stay on the west side of town. Is that correct?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes. So Director Guzman, what we were attempting to do-- and I'm not sure that we're
going to be able to do it because we have to address ADA accessibility issues at 30th and Downing with
what we're attempting to do. As it's stated in the SOP, the 34 would return, but basically, it was built out of
the eastern part of the former route 38. So you're correct-- service will remain the same on the western
portion of the route 38, but then the 34 would take over on the eastern half from 30th and Downing out to
Central Park.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. That answers both of my last two questions because the 34 was the following
onem, so that's a two for one. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson again.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So as I think everybody on here is aware, Coldplay came to town just a
couple days ago, and we put out some great art. We had some great press about the things that we were
doing to facilitate making it easier for people to get to the concert.
And then yesterday-- or rather this morning, excuse me-- there was a very angry post on Reddit that got a
bunch of comments about how because the concert got out at 11:45 and our last train left at 12:30, there
were a significant number of people who were not able to get home. And in fact, I know even some
members of RTD staff who were at that concert faced that exact issue. So I think that there is a
meaningful challenge that we run into with these late night concerts and with these events that
unfortunately are not on a predictable schedule as much as we'd like them to be, but that tens of
thousands of people still take to go and expect of us that we will be able to run service as so many other
cities do to take people home from football games and Coldplay concerts and basketball games and
such.
I'm wondering if you can speak to why is it that we can't seem to do this? What's the challenge that
makes it not possible for us to run a 1 AM train when there's a concert that's getting out at 11L45 or a bus
or something to address these concerns on a more reliable basis? I know we do some things when it
comes to Broncos games and Nuggets games and things like that. We run longer trains or whatever.
But this seems to come up a lot. I've gotten these posts. I've seen these things on a frequent basis. Can
we talk about what service changes could look like to address some of these late night concerns?
IAN HARWICK: CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. I'll start, and I'll yield the floor to the team. So there's a couple of
things I just want to ground us in. Comments that you made, Director Nicholson, about what other cities
do. There is a myriad of different things that other cities do, but when you think about the operating
environment, we want to ensure that we are providing the best services that we can.
And the reason I broach this is I'm going to share just a short story. When I moved to the Washington,
DC, area and started working for the Washington Metropolitan Area Transportation Authority and had
previously worked at Bart and VTA, a question was asked to me, what did you guys do for Monday Night
Football? I said, well, Monday Night Football comes on at 6 o'clock in California. We did not have the
same issues. And the issue we were facing was, at the time, the Washington Commanders-- who had a
different name-- had moved out to land over Maryland from Washington, DC. And so the system closed at
a certain time.
So in that instance, I remember being part of a meeting where we met with the NFL Commissioner, and
the NFL paid WMATA to keep the system open. And so the reason I put that forward is the operative
word in what we do is public transportation. And we want to be good partners, but there's different
mechanisms in which cities do in order to make that happen. But with that as a backdrop, recognizing
what we have done-- some great work that the team has leveraged going forward. So recognizing that we
don't have a lot of options, just by virtue of the configuration that we have.
Considering that there were protests yesterday that impacted what we were doing, we leveraged extra
employees, i.e. that volunteered, because we do not have mandated overtime. What we also did was put
out variable message signs at the entrance to the stadium when people were approaching it so that
individuals would have an understanding. We tried to leverage all that we could. And in doing so, talking

about-- and I'm looking at my notes because I will share that Director Nicholson shared with us that he
was going to broach this, and we do appreciate that.
We ran to ground, i.e. concerns relative to what we received. And we had one online comment from
earlier today indicating that the last departure from the W Line from Denver Union Station did not happen.
And we investigated that concern, so there was one instance there. And so recognizing that there's a
myriad of things that we are doing, I've been meeting with the modal leaders, and we are looking at some
options that we may be able to do by having designated workforce for bus bridging and things of the like.
Because this is something else when we talk about different transit agencies. Here at this agency, we hire
directly rail operators off the street. Other agencies basically have individuals start as bus operators, and
then they promote into rail. Why is that important? Because if we had a service disruption or needed
additional support, we already have individuals that have CDLs that then basically could pick up their
shift. They're just utilizing a different mode, i.e. rubber tire as opposed to steel wheels.
So at this juncture, I'm going to yield the floor to Mr. Jensen to talk more specifically about what we do in
rail operations, recognizing that context I gave. And I hope my comments are being taken in the spirit in
which I'm intending. I don't want to come across as defensive, but I think it's important that when we say
what other cities are doing, we have to ensure that there's different operating environments and different
mechanisms. And so we do recognize we have opportunities here and are going to lean into that. So,
Dave?
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, and I would reiterate exactly what you just said. It is our goal to provide the highest
level of service, the highest quality service we can. And so two components to, I think, the question that's
posed to us this evening-- one was last night, the other is what we do in general. Ms. Johnson's point
about the protests threw us off last night. Even though some of the dynamics of the protest may have
been over or diminished by that time, what ended up happening to us last night was we stopped running
trains downtown for hours.
Broadway Station was shut down for a period of time. And so what we do to recover the system is turn
trains back. What that does to the operators is it puts them out of sequence. So almost every single
operator that was working last night was out of sequence. They were not where they belonged according
to their schedule. So the control center staff, who's dealing with a highly complicated, tense situation
that's critical for us to protect our employees and our customers are also trying to provide service at the
same time.
And so that's where the complexity of what happened last night comes into play. But to Ms. Johnson's
point, for every special event we have that we know or suspect will go beyond scheduled time, we ask for
volunteers because we only staff for scheduled service. We don't staff for special events. So when a
special event occurs, we're reliant upon volunteer people for overtime, and we don't force overtime.
Now, to Ms. Johnson's point as well, there are alternatives that we're exploring. And I would say that
everything's on the table, but there's limitations to what we can currently do, and there's limitations to
what we might be able to do in the future. And we're trying to maximize those as well. I also came from a
different city in a different location in California. We also had similar challenges, but our staffing levels and
the way that they were arranged were significantly different. And we were able to do that because it was a
different part of the country. And so our staffing levels were different in the way that we were able to
provide service based on personnel issues were different.

So I don't want to come across as defensive either. Our limitations on how we can turn trains around,
where we turn them around, where we can pull them out, the number of people that we have that have
the ability to operate on any given day-- one of the things I didn't mention, but probably should, is hours of
service. So we've got very strict regulations on how many hours an operator can work in a particular day
and what their turn time is from day to day and how many hours they can have in a week. And all of those
things are taken into consideration, and we're doing everything we can to provide regular service.
So when an event like this occurs and then another situation on top of it, it makes it really complicated.
Not to say, again, that there aren't things that we couldn't do. We're looking at alternatives and trying to
determine what the best course forward would be, because we'd like to be able to do that. But as it stands
today, there are certain limitations that prevent us from doing more than we can, than we are, other than
informing our customers, this is what we can do. These are one of the last trains are going to be here.
Please plan accordingly.
And I do see another one of the directors who posed a question yesterday as well. We did position field
supervision out at critical locations where we knew there were connections that needed to be made. The
OCC, the control center knows where the trains are. They did try to coordinate those needs depending on
where the trains were. And we were informing people in the field last night about whether or not there was
another train coming, when the next train would be there, and what the expectation was of train service.
So I hope that was helpful, and I hope that answered your question.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson, I'm going to jump to Director O'Keefe, and then I'll circle back to you.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Chairman Harwick. So I raised the question yesterday, and I think our
challenge was that the D line is the only one that required a transfer last night. And I appreciate the prep
that we did to accommodate that yesterday. I guess my challenge is we didn't just miss something last
night. We broadcast all day on press releases and on television, take RTD. We're going to get you there
to the concert.
And when we do that, we better have 180% sure that we're going to be able to do it. Because my
nightmare scenario was someone taking their kids, and they don't take RTD much. They don't know what
they're doing. They go to a concert and have a fun time. It is 12:30 AM, and they are standing on a
platform at Broadway. We're assuming that they can afford to take an Uber home and that their car isn't at
a station.
And so I get that things happened yesterday. I think the protest had tamped down by early evening. We
had five hours to broadcast out on Twitter channels. I couldn't find any evidence of that. We should have
put signs up. In my opinion, we should have called Empower Field and asked them to broadcast on the
way out the door, hey, trains aren't running normally. Check your ride.
So it's a 90,000-person concert last night. This isn't a major event. This is a mega event. And I guess my
biggest problem is I am trying to get people to fall in love with us again. We have one chance to make a
first impression again. And all of those incidental riders last night, I couldn't get them back on an RTD
train, I bet, for anything.
And so if we broadcast it, we should only broadcast it if we are 100% sure we can do it. And that's my
problem. I know stuff happens. I couldn't find any evidence-- maybe we did, besides having people out on
the platforms talking to people. But this was a mega event that we told people to take RTD to, so we
should have spent every effort to try to set that straight. And that's my challenge with this.

We need the suburban folks to support RTD, the taxpayers that never ride it for anything else. This model
doesn't work if those people don't give us their tax dollars and aren't going to vote for it when we ask in
the future. And so that's just my challenge. I get the protests were a problem and I'm not upset at the
inability to handle the chaos, but the challenge I have is we ask people to take it and trust us, and we lost
the opportunity. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: CEO Johnson and then Mr. Jensen.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. And thank you very much for that, Director O'Keefe. We hear you. It
hasn't fallen upon deaf ears. And I just want to acknowledge that, because yes, it's critically important. We
say we're going to take you there. We're going to get you home.
So this is an area of opportunity, and it's about ensuring that we can provide service to all customers,
whether discretionary or those that are reliant. And I hear you. So I just wanted to acknowledge that on
the record. Thank you.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you both.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. So first I want to say, I really appreciate this. I go on Reddit whenever
there's a post like this, and I try to answer the best that I can. And I say a lot of what you just said. I'm not
trying to be defensive, but here's what I know. And so whenever you guys come to me and give me more
information, it makes it easier for me to go, on behalf of the-- not on behalf of the agency, but to give the
public the best explanation that I can.
And people tend to understand that this is hard. I think there are really two things that I'd really like going
forward from this. The first is my favorite technology company, Cloudflare, which hosts a lot of the back
end of a lot of websites-- whenever they have an incident, they write an after action report that goes into
great detail about why it happened, what specifically went down, and what they're going to do to remedy
it.
And so I think one of the things that I'd like to see from something like this is a similar write-up from you,
Dave, and your team about what happened, where the failure was, and what do we do to move forward to
prevent it from happening next time. And I think that that would be a really good practice for the agency to
get into whenever something big falls down like this, even a little bit.
The second thing is, I think that it is on us in some ways, to be willing to set policy when it comes to
special events and to say, OK, these are the trade-offs that we want to make as a board. These are the
choices, and this is the instruction we want to give to you, GM/CEO Johnson, about how to choose
between the five different things that you can be doing in order to address these types of things. Because
I'm the one that's going to get yelled at at public meetings about why this didn't happen.
And so I think we have to take some level of responsibility for that and say, OK, here's how we want you
to address this. So I would love to see a special events policy come forward to the board from your team
that says, OK, here's the type of service that we're going to try to run. Here's how, here's what we're not
going to do, and put it on us to make those choices publicly rather than just putting it on you to have to
think about that stuff. I think we owe it to the public, and I think we owe it to you to address that directly.
IAN HARWICK: CEO Johnson.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. And I appreciate the comments, Secretary Nicholson. I'd be remiss,
relative to giving Dave a direction about what he should be doing-- I want you all to understand that this is
collective, and we operate from a one RTD approach. And I can sit here affirmatively and say that the
team is already working in conjunction on an after-action report as we go forward because it will be
deliberate and be intentional, relative to what it is, because not one person could deliver service in this
agency alone, including me. And so I want to ensure that everybody is cognizant of that as we move
forward.
Recognizing policies that come to the board, we can have a further discussion. I know that is what you
desire, but collectively, as it relates to service delivery, this is something that we are taking up next month
as it relates to service standards and how we deliver service. So I would be remiss if I did not share that
in this forum. So thank you very kindly. I do think we're aligned, but I just want to be clear in reference to
the direction in reference to staff and what they should be doing, that I would appreciate having that
opportunity in reference to the role that I have here. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson, I'm going to give you one more bite of the apple, friend.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Will special events be part of that service delivery policy that comes to
the board next month?
IAN HARWICK: CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So first and foremost, let me ground you in what we're talking about with service
standards report. As I have been working with the Vice Chair of this committee and the committee of the
chair, in addition to my motel staff, keeping in mind that service standards and things of the like spawn
out of a comprehensive operational analysis. What we agreed to do as we go forward is look at what we
have, because there's been some elements that aren't inclusive.
To the point that you asked, that will be something that will be incorporated in, but we have to be
intentional relative to where we currently sit, because we haven't done a comprehensive operational
analysis. Because not only are we talking about special service, first we have to understand our stop
spacing policy. What does that mean relative to bus bunching and things of the like? So there's different
segments there, and so it's incumbent upon me to ensure that we're working from a one RTD approach
and it's comprehensive.
So long story short, for all intents and purposes, yes, it should be there. But at this iteration, recognizing
we were working with the Committee Chair that wanted us to put something forward, we agree that this is
an iterative step. And then when we do a CoA, we're going to build upon that on a triennial basis. And
Vice Chair Harwick is nodding because he was privy to that discussion. So thank you for the opportunity
to share that information.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Nicholson, make it a nibble.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No, I was giving a thumbs up. Thank you very much, CEO Johnson.
IAN HARWICK: Good nibble. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Chair Harwick. So I was downtown last night. I finished toasting the
Finance and Planning meeting and went to go find my bus and realized something was not right because

the buses that I waited for didn't show up, and they were out of whack. And that's OK, and there was no
problem.
But at the time that I left the building, the protests were interrupting the services. And so I went to the My
Ride app. I looked at different options to get home. And I got home safely, but I did end up having to take
a commuter rail from Union Station, which is not my preferred method because I have to walk a bit farther
at that time of night. And it was fine. The G left right on time and got me right where I needed to be.
So I think part of this also is-- I respect everybody's opinion on this. And I do understand the nerves
around large events and being able to make a promise and keep a promise. The other part of it is we
have to be really comfortable using our system, and I have to give a shout out to the agency because
there was no panic to interrupting service. There was no crisis level communication that caused a big stir
in the community that there was something that wrong that would cause it. It was simply trying to keep
equipment and employees safe and the public well informed as best we could.
But in a situation like that, I would challenge the thought that the board is the first and only person that
needs to know, because as AGM Jensen spoke to-- and I'm sure the AGM of Bus Operations services
would probably be able to speak to-- there are other people doing work in real time trying to reroute,
trying to delay. The dispatch center's probably going full steam ahead ensuring that the services are
running. And so we do get informed of that in the post-mortem, so to speak-- circle back on it to the board
when it's necessary. And that's happened time and time again during my time on the board.
There will always be, forever and always be somebody behind a screen somewhere who is pissed off
about a company or an agency or local government. And while their opinion and their feedback is
valuable because it can help us reconsider, think, and plan differently for the future, there are going to be
times when we just cannot make everybody happy.
And to that end, I don't frankly waste a lot of my time worrying about Reddit posts because there are other
options for those persons to communicate properly with the agency their frustration and their concern
about a situation directly to RTD. And that gets more traction when we know that they are concerned
enough to let us know and not post it out just for the dark corners of the internet to read and find. I don't
have enough time as a director to troll on Reddit and to waste time digging through X or Bluesky or other
forums to find people's complaints.
And so I would really, really caution that every time somebody says something even slightly negative
about the agency, we jump on top of it like it's the end of the world. If I did that every time somebody said
something negative about Starbucks, I wouldn't sleep at night. We can't do it, just reality. And our public
outreach team cannot do that. It's just reality. And some of them are not even worth responding to
because just over and over again, no matter what we do, it's going to be negative.
To that end, let's take the good from this. We were able to keep people safe. We were able to move
people. I was one of the people that got moved last night safely and soundly to my destination. I just had
to figure out how to get somewhere to be able to enjoy that ride. And it was clean and it was safe. Fares
were being checked.
Everybody was happy leaving the Rockies game at that point. I rode home with protesters on that train
wrapped in the Mexican flag, wrapped in other items that they used with protest. And everybody was
really cool and tranquil and respecting our ride, which is what we want at the end of the day. So I'm going
to leave that there.

But I do have to say to the whole team, thank you, first of all, for doing your job well. And thank you for
letting us know when it's appropriate. But I also don't expect to be the first one to know because that's not
my job. That's frankly what we have hired our General Manager and CEO for and what she has hired all
of you for. And you handled it, so I just want to give you that kudos. Thanks.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson, I see your hand up.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. Can I respond a little bit to what Mr. Guzman said about me, what I've been
up to?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. I can't speak to what other directors want to do, have time to do. I'll just
say that I believe it's really important to go and respond to the public when they're talking about us,
whether that's in a news article, an op-ed, a letter to the editor, a Reddit post, an email. I take that
responsibility really seriously. I read all my email from constituents. I answer it all. I try to do it promptly.
And I go on Reddit because that's where people are talking about us. And I've heard from dozens of
constituents that that's the main way they see something about what RTD is doing. So you may think of it
as the dark corner of the internet, but if that's where people are talking about us and that's where they
want to get their news from, then I'm happy to be there. I'm happy to do it-- don't need anybody else to.
But I've been a Redditor for a long time, and I think it's worthwhile.
So I think that we're going to make mistakes. We're going to have good days. We're going to have bad
days. And we should be bragging about the good days whenever we can. And we should be honestly
responding and speaking publicly on the bad days where we can. And I think that that's the best approach
we can take to try and build trust in this agency in the moments when things go well and in the moments
when they don't, exactly as Director O'Keefe talked about. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. I'm going to wrap that discussion up right there. I actually have a question
here for Mr. Carter. I'd like to circle back to where we all started from. Route 76 is listed in here, and part
of that is in my area. And I've gotten a few issues specifically on the weekend around its connection to the
52. I'm curious if this update might somehow help allow people to better make that connection.
JESSIE CARTER: Committee Chair Harwick, I think I have spoken to my staff about that particular
incident where Route 52 is leaving as Route 76 is arriving.
IAN HARWICK: That's correct.
JESSIE CARTER: That can be addressed in a couple of different ways. And what I've advised is perhaps
where there is a close connect, to look at the overall schedule. It is very difficult to make every single
connection that's possible on a given route, especially a route as long as Route 76, which is one of the
longest ones.
But at the same time, we can use things like notes to the operator to put on the train car more
permanently after a revision and/or as a temporary note to let them know that there are people who are
trying to make that close connection. And given the time that's allowed, they can make those attempts.
Where we can make the connection-- and if it doesn't really ruin our more important or the place where
we have the largest connections, we will accommodate moves to actually address that.

IAN HARWICK: Thank you. I appreciate that.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Now we're in other matters. Do any board members from the committee or
elsewhere have any other matters to discuss?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Of course.
IAN HARWICK: OK, all right.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I just wanted to say-- may I?
IAN HARWICK: Two nibbles.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, very quickly. I just want to say, I think this is our shortest OSNS meeting so
far, and I wanted to commend you, Co-Chair Harwick, on your efficient handling of the meeting, so thank
you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. I decided not to time you all tonight because it was a pretty short agenda. But
thank you all for being, for the most part, pretty succinct. Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: I want to say thank you for keeping it short. It is my birthday and it's a nice gift to have
the time. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Happy birthday.
IAN HARWICK: All right. Anybody else? Going once. Going twice. OK. All right. The next Operation
Safety and Security Committee meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, July 16th.
At that meeting, we will cover a number of topics. We have recommended actions slated for the following- August 2025, Title VI Service Equity Analysis as needed in the event of a major service change, plus or
minus 25% on a given route or line. August 2025 service change recommendations, paratransit access
on demand program modifications, paratransit access on demand contract extensions. And we will have
discussions slated for the following-- fixed route bus contracted services in the Boulder and Longmont
area and service standards and policies update.
I don't see any hands. I don't see anything-- anybody waving at me or anything at all. So I'm going to
adjourn this meeting at 6:46 PM. You all have a great evening. Thank you. Bye.

​greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com​

​Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Service Change Process, June 14th, 2025.​
​June 14th, 2025​
​Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning & Scheduling​
​Regional Transportation District​
​1660 Blake Street​
​Denver, CO 80202​
​August 2025 Service Changes​
​Dear Mr. Carter,​
​Greater Denver Transit (GDT) has the following comments on the proposed August 2025 service changes:​
​H Line Termination at Southmoor​
​GDT notes the discussion between Directors and service planning staff that occurred during the Operations,​
​Safety & Security meeting on June 11th.​
​We would like to emphasize the importance of treating the H Line line as a connecting shuttle between​
​Southmoor and Florida. Southbound H Line trains need to depart Southmoor as soon as practicable after​
​southbound E Line trains have called. Likewise, northbound H Line trains should depart Florida as soon as​
​possible after southbound R Line trains pass.​
​For late afternoon and evening special events at Empower Field or the Ball Arena, consideration should be​
​given to running H Line trains to Union Station using the space in the schedule freed up by other lines reducing​
​frequency to 30 minutes after 6pm.​
​L Line Suspension​
​GDT is greatly concerned that once again, service on the L Line is withdrawn due to construction work​
​happening elsewhere. This is particularly frustrating at a time where the L Line needs support more than ever​
​as it is now clear that there are members of the community who have so lost trust in the rail service being​
​useful that they are now campaigning to get it shut down permanently.​
​We urge the agency to work with its Downtown Rail Loop construction contractors and industry experts to find​
​ways to keep the L Line running during the works as a Welton St shuttle. Possible measures could include:​
​1.​ ​Planning the reconstruction works in two parts so that there is always half the loop and one track​
​available for empty train movements to / from the maintenance facilities.​
​2.​ ​Minimizing empty train movements by storing light rail vehicles at 30th & Downing that don’t need​
​maintenance attention. On-board cleaning could be done by a mobile unit.​
​3.​ ​If not already present, installing disconnect switches that allow the OCS on Welton St to remain live,​
​even when the Downtown Rail Loop power is off.​
​www.greaterdenvertransit.com​

​Page​​1​

​greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com​

​Route FF4 Reinstatement​
​GDT welcomes the return of Flatiron Flyer service to Boulder Junction. However, we suggest this route serves​
​stops in Denver on 17th & 18th streets plus Union Station in order to provide connectivity from all parts of​
​Downtown to Boulder Junction.​
​Route LX2 Reinstatement​
​GDT is in support of the reinstatement of this route which will improve the connectivity between Longmont and​
​Denver.​
​Route 6 ‘Realignment’ to Serve the Community College of Aurora​
​GDT fully supports providing service to Community College of Aurora’s CentreTech campus as a long overdue​
​addition to the network. The exact nature of the proposed diversion / extension is not clear from the description​
​provided on the service changes webpage. GDT requests a route map be provided to avoid potential confusion​
​over the scope of this proposed change. GDT notes that this change is in conflict with the SOP, which​
​proposes serving this campus by re-aligning route 169. We request a better understanding of the advantages​
​of adding additional route length and operator hours to route 6 in comparison to route 169.​
​Routes 29, 30 and 35 Reorganization of Service​
​The exact nature of the proposed diversion of route 35 between Evans & Federal and Hampden & Wadsworth​
​is not clear from the description provided on the service changes webpage. GDT requests a map is provided to​
​avoid potential confusion over the scope of this proposed change.​
​Route 32 Extension to Civic Center Station​
​GDT is in support of the extension of this route as it will increase access to Downtown for customers riding​
​from West 32nd Ave and improve Downtown connectivity. It is also fully in line with our Downtown Bus Plan.​
​Route 34 Reinstatement​
​GDT recommends this route be diverted to terminate at 41st & Fox with a connection at 38th & Blake after​
​traveling west along Bruce Randolph Ave to provide easy connections to Union Station via the A Line and the​
​west side via the G Line. Adequate service to the Downtown Loop area and Five Points from points east of​
​30th & Downing Station is already provided by Route 43 which runs 2-3 blocks south of Bruce Randolph Ave.​
​The provision of a map will clarify for all customers the exact alignment of route 34.​

​www.greaterdenvertransit.com​

​Page​​2​

​greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com​

​Route 38 Termination at 30th & Downing​
​GDT notes the poor punctuality on this route which mainly manifests itself in eastbound buses being delayed​
​on West 38th Ave and thus entering downtown behind schedule. This is exacerbated by the routing Downtown​
​which takes the buses close to Coors Field on streets that do not have bus lanes.​

​The graph above shows the numbers of passengers on board a westbound route 38 bus, averaged out over​
​the September 2024 runboard period. Apart from the extreme ends of the route, it can be seen that the lowest​
​numbers of riders are on board at 15th & Stout, which points to passengers from Central Park heading into​
​Downtown getting off the bus at earlier stops (e.g. California & 17th) before the bus starts picking up​
​passengers on Lawrence St who are heading west on 38th Avenue.​
​These data lead us to conclude that the lowest numbers of thru-riding passengers are on board in central​
​downtown on 15th St, so it makes sense to split the route there, not at 30th & Downing. Therefore, GDT​
​recommends that this route’s long term eastern terminus is Civic Center Station in accordance with our​
​Downtown Bus Plan.​
​GDT would also like to see this bus rerouted to serve Union Station via Wewatta St to improve connectivity. We​
​note that the stop that shows the most passengers boarding for westbound customers is Lawrence & 18th​
​which is the closest one to Union Station.​
​Lack of Advance Schedule Information​
​GDT remains disappointed by RTD’s continuing inability to provide even the most basic information on​
​proposed timings. While we understand that any proposed schedule may be subject to change, it shouldn’t be​
​beyond the capabilities of staff to provide summaries of how they have scheduled routes. Even simple​
​statements such as “Route A buses are planned to depart station Z at :xx past the hour, this is to allow​
​customers to connect from B Line trains, which arrive at :yy past the hour.” would be immensely helpful and​
​reassuring to customers who currently feel ignored on this very important part of service planning.​

​www.greaterdenvertransit.com​

​Page​​3​

​greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com​

​With best wishes,​

​James Flattum​

​Richard Bamber​

​Emma Griffin​

​Joe Meyer​

​CC:​

​Keith Brooks​

​RTD Board of Directors​
​Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO​
​Angel Peña, RTD Deputy CEO​

​www.greaterdenvertransit.com​

​Page​​4​

June 11, 2025
Director Karen Benker
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake St
Denver, CO 80202
RE: August 2025 Proposed Service Changes
Dear Director Benker,
The City and County of Broomfield wants to express our support for the Regional Transportation District’s proposed service
changes scheduled for implementation in September 2025. These changes will meaningfully enhance transit access and regional
connectivity for Broomfield residents, workers and visitors.
We are particularly pleased to see the proposed restoration of FF4 service between Broomfield Civic Center and Boulder
Junction. This key route has long served as a vital link between Broomfield and Boulder and its reinstatement will provide
much-needed mobility for those commuting, accessing essential services or seeking more sustainable travel options.
We also support the proposed routing change for the 228A/F to connect US 36 & Flatiron Station to a new stop at US 36 &
McCaslin Station via Marshall Road, Sycamore Street and Center Drive. This thoughtful routing adjustment will improve
Broomfield’s access to key destinations in Superior while supporting first-mile/last-mile connections along the US 36 corridor.
In addition, we appreciate RTD’s continued efforts to improve service reliability through schedule timing adjustments for Route
76 (Wadsworth) and Route 120. Enhancing on-time performance on Route 76 and better aligning Route 120 to improve
connections to the N Line at Eastlake/124th Avenue Station will improve the rider experience and encourage more consistent
transit use.
Broomfield continues to urge RTD to support the impacted riders of Route 128, which has been inactive since April 2020. The
Broomfield Transit Study finds that fixed-route service remains necessary in South-Central and Central Broomfield, the area
formerly served by Route 128, to connect residents to the US 36 & Broomfield Station, Wagon Road Park n Ride, and other key
community destinations. With the study concluding this fall, Broomfield looks forward to ongoing partnership with RTD to
improve service, operations and connections to regional transit facilities.
We value RTD’s continued partnership and commitment to transit service improvements. These changes reflect thoughtful
planning and responsiveness to community needs and we look forward to their successful implementation.

Sincerely,

Mayor Guyleen Castriotta
City and County of Broomfield
CC: ​
​
​
​

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager, CEO
Jessie Carter, Senior Manager, Service Development
Michael Davies, RTD Government Liaison
RTD Service Changes

