May14, 2020
Executive Committee
[DIAL TONES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Shelley Cook, Second Vice Chair? Secretary Vince Buzek?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think he has a deposition or something.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Oh, and Treasurer Lynn Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm still here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Gosh, that's three of us. Ms. McManus.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Shelley is planning to be here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Ms. McManus, is there a-- is there a quorum we have to
have for Executive Committee?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, three.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, we are at three.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook, are you on? OK.
[BEEP]
What's your pleasure? Should we wait a couple minutes, or should we go ahead and get started?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'll text her right now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pardon? Oh, OK, you're texting her.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm texting her.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We also have John McKay, Barbara McManus, and Paul Ballard on,
and Director Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Is Director Menten on?

NATALIE MENTEN: Yup.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Director Menten? I guess I should go through. Are there any
other board directors on the line?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Doug Tisdale is here for the first part of the meeting. Then I have to jump
off at noon for an APTA Board Executive Committee meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you, sir. Anyone else? OK. I'm going to go ahead and
get the meeting started, then, since we have a quorum.
LYNN GUISSINGER: If someone-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pardon?
LYNN GUISSINGER: If someone else has a phone number, has this phone-- I mean we're all on
this line. Maybe somebody has a phone they can call or something. That's weird. Anyway, let's
start.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I want to call the Executive Committee to order. This is
Thursday, May 14th, and it is 11:36 AM Mountain Daylight Time. What you have in front of you
is the draft board agendas for May 19, 2020. And I'd like to see if I have a first and a second to
approve the agenda to move forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director-- or First Vice Chair Catlin, do I have a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, that'd be Treasurer Guissinger. Any discussion? OK, all in
favor, say aye.
PEGGY CATLIN: Aye.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, it passes unanimously.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: I'm sorry. Sorry to be late.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Second Vice Chair, we just approved the agenda to go
forward. I'm so sorry.
SHELLEY COOK: That's OK. It's my fault. I just-LYNN GUISSINGER: I do have a question. Do we have an Executive Session that day?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not see an Executive Session on here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's on there, but it-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: --doesn't say what it's about on here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We-- we-BARBARA MCMANUS: No, it's just there as a bullet item. So you would CRS language if we
were actually having one.
OK. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. OK, any other questions or discussion?
SHELLEY COOK: Are we on other matters? I've got the agenda up in front of me. I just
completely let time get by--.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, we haven't gotten there yet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, we're not there yet. We've just re-PEGGY CATLIN: Uhmm, Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe I heard one other person call in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: May I ask who's on the line?
[BEEP]
Can you please tell me who 720-620-9659 is, please? I'm sorry. Is someone on the line with the
last four digits of 9659? Can you please announce yourself? OK, I understand they may have left
the call. All right.

So with the agenda approved and no discussion on that, the next thing is other matters. So Director
or Second Vice Chair Cook, did you have something under other matters?
SHELLEY COOK: I know I had two things, but one thing to begin with. Just a suggestion based
on what I'd seen previously for public comment and, in particular, when somebody is phoning in.
We don't respond. That's appropriate. That's prudent. You don't want to give a response to a request
or something.
The one thing I would offer we could do that would make it clear we have heard them, and if there
is a follow-up required, that we would do that, is to just preface and say, our practice here is to
listen to you. We don't immediately respond, but don't-- you know, don't take that to mean we
don't consider what you say and, indeed, even act on it.
So if they have a question that needs to be followed up on, a staff member gets the particulars, and
then we indicate in practicing that that the staff will get with them and respond to their questions.
If it's just a matter of urging us to do something, I think simply preceding the public comment with
that comment helps them know that--.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it.
SHELLEY COOK: We don't normally. So that was just a suggestion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: No, that's is all. I'll think of the other thing, but go ahead, anybody else.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hello, Chair, this is Barbara McManus.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Miss McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: John, if you would just make a note to add that-- add that suggestion
that Director Cook just made to the script that we provide.
JOHN MCKAY: Got it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me, this is Peggy Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: I also think that we-- along those lines, we need to emphasize that those people
providing public comment do need to state their name and address for the record and that another
way that we can show them that we will take their comments into consideration, even though we
are not responding during the course of the meeting.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. So we can add that to the script as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: And if they don't, then I know it's a burden on you, Chair, but if you could just
remind them if they start speaking without saying their name and address.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I will. I do do-- what do I do currently? I do tell them that they're
going to be audio recorded, and if they can't give us their name and stuff, then they need to get
their information to the Board Office, right?
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. Sometimes they just get started talking and forget to say their name.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. OK. Duly noted. Anything else under other matters by any
board member?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, this is Lynn. Can we take a minute to sort of talk about the letter to
the governor and moving forward with the accountability committee? I think that we have three
different versions of a letter now, and so we've got to-- we need to get something out, and we need
to move forward pretty quickly on the accountability committee, because they go back in session
before long. And if we're going to do something ourselves, we'll need to have something to-- which
is what we decided. We need to have something to propose.
I've seen-- I've presented one letter that was, you know, a one-page brief response on some of the
things we've talked about in our phone call with Brandeberry McKenna, you know, about
responding briefly to the safety issues, and then talking about our committee. I've revised that
some. Angie drafted another one that was-- had a whole lot more detail, and we worked on that
one. And then I just Paul's that is very brief.
So how should we move forward here? I think-- I do think, Paul, that it's important to give the
governor some response to the specifics that he requested. And that's what I think Brandeberry
McKenna was advising us on the phone call.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, I think he was largely responding to our initial letter and acknowledging,
which I think we're just digging ourselves into a much bigger hole here and getting into a
competition and writing longer and more frequent letters. I mean, it seems to me that we should
try to bring this particular round of letter exchanges to a close. I mean actions speak louder than
words, and if we go ahead and do what we've said we're going to do, that word's going to get out
pretty quickly.
But I just think sending longer and more letters back and forth is just-- it's just digging our hole
deeper in trying to resolve the situation. I don't think it's-- I don't think providing all that detail is
really going to change the governor's mind. I think we respectfully acknowledge his last
suggestions in that we're looking to them carefully, and we appreciate the trust and confidence that
we're trying to build. I just think we simplify this process, end this round of communications, and
then do what we say we're going to do.

LYNN GUISSINGER: May I-- may I suggest that I send back-- I revised my letter. It's only four
paragraphs, maybe five with a final sentence or something. And I added-- I strengthened the
committee part with a bit of what Angie had put in to make it a little bit stronger. But I guess I just
feel like he had some very specific requests, and to me, it was not just a response to your letter. It
was a volley that, hey, we're giving you an oversight committee, and we hope you'll work with us.
And I guess I feel like telling him that, yes, we're moving forward on something. We hope-- we
recognize-- we hear you. It needs to be an independent committee, and we're putting something
together we hope can move forward without legislation, or at least we'll work with the leadership.
Does that-- as I say, I think it's pretty brief. Is that-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What do you think?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Can you send it to us, so we can read it?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, you want it right now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do. I think-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: I haven't seen what Lynn's drafted, so I'll look at that with everybody. But I
really feel like there were two specific things-- one about social distancing, and I don't guess we
need to elaborate, but indicating in very brief or with an attachment, if that would be better, that
we are-- we are adding additional measures.
And then secondly, it would be so good if we were already taking steps. I mean taking up in our
agenda the establishment or reaching out to them to work jointly on the establishment of an
oversight committee. I think being able to say we have commenced that process, and we'd like to
work with you, so we know that it's responsive to what you say. I-- that's just my personal bent in
responding to him.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think, personally, that's a good point. And in fact, we have started
down that road with Treasurer Guissinger. So-SHELLEY COOK: So good to say that.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But Treasurer, when do you need this letter to go out? That was
the other concern, correct, that it was a time-sensitive kind of piece?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It was in the sense that Jenifer from Brandeberry has been talking. She had
a long conversation with Casey Becker, and she was hoping to get that back to the speaker
yesterday and push her to let us do this, rather than have a legislator. Jenifer is actually,
unfortunately, back in surgery today. She's fine, but the stent and the coils that they put in for the
aneurysm had moved and-- I'm giving you the layman's version-- and they're having to go back in.
So Julie will do the same thing. But the idea is before they get consumed with being back in the
session, to try to get the speaker to help us move this forward. And I'm going to get it out to you
all in about 30 seconds here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I don't know if you all know this. I know Mr. Ballard knows
this, and I sent out an email. But from this morning's conversation with the local elected officials,
you note that Mayor Hancock is going to be having a press conference at 1 o'clock this afternoon
to announce that, originally, they had determined that the City of Denver was going to be $188
million short. But in fact, it's more like 262, I think.
And so he is going to mandate eight furlough days, but five of those days, he's going to shut down
the city completely, which is unprecedented. And so I think that we're going to be seeing-- and the
legislature is really grappling with how to logistically come back together and work on legislation,
and particularly now that they're seen a $3.3 billion shortfall, in light of DPS as well, which is what
35% of the budget goes to state education, and 10% of that goes to Denver public schools. So I
think that the issues they're going to be grappling with are going to be so much bigger than
transportation at this point.
But it might give us a day or two to flush this letter out so that everybody's comfortable with it.
Would that be OK with you, Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep, that's fine. And I'll go ahead and send it over. But I think that's-- here,
I'm just going to send it to Barbara and John, if you all can send it to everybody that's in this call,
if you would.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That would be great. Thank you. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam-- Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just my one recommendation would be,
first of all, that I agree with Mr. Ballard that less is more. But secondly, if we are going to send a
letter giving a position of the RTD Board, I would respectfully request that the letter not just be
forwarded to the people on this call, but also to the full board just as an informational item, not
necessarily asking for people to settle in and wordsmith, but at least so that people know so that
board members won't be surprised when they see whatever reaction there is. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's a really-- Madam Chair, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's a really good suggestion. And I also will pull back up the
letter that I mentioned in the meeting the other night that explains to the board, you know, that-kind of what our plan is to try to create our own committee. And you know, I hear what you're
saying about, you know, that they're going to be consumed with other things. But I've also heard- I know that Matt and Faith were-- that Senator Winter and Rep Gray were on a phone call with
some local electeds last week and reiterated that this is something that they want to get through.
I think that, you know, the governor's letter was a warning. And I think that us moving something
forward is how we-- you know, it sounds like that's how we get the speaker and the majority leader
to help us not have that happen. That's not to say it would happen, if we don't, but if we don't do
something, it might die this year, because they're just frantic.
But-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --you know, as we talked about before, I think this is an effort to also keep
it from coming back next year. And it's no guarantee, but, you know, it's what they've been
wanting. And if we can manage it and help put it together and make it a good committee, it seems
like that's kind of what we're thinking. But I agree with Director Tisdale. Let's send it out and ask
for the board's feedback on all of that, OK? That's my suggestion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I do-- I do have a question, just out of curiosity. On their call
with local elected officials, did that include anyone from central Denver, or were they on
Northwest folks?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that was a-- you know, I talked to Elise Jones, who's a Boulder
County Commissioner. I think it was a Boulder County policy call. But I'm not sure who was on
the call.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. All right.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think if we-- in the same regard, Chair, if we get the letter out to the
board and get some feedback and start to put together, you know, ideas for people who would be
on it. The sooner we can move those things forward, the better.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. I just got your letter. I need to read it, if you don't
mind, and then go from there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But I agree. I think the letter that you had constructed to go to the
board was very good. The board the board did receive the letter from the governor to Mr. Ballard
and myself last week when we received it. So they are in possession of that. And I think with your
letter, and then this, whatever we come up with will be really, really helpful. I agree, the entire
board needs to be apprised of what's happening and where we're going and letting them-- just
giving them a heads up is really what we need to do.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Maybe we can talk after our next meeting. So the letter I sent, I
think, is kind of a compromise between the two, you know, that-- the other two that have been
written, and we can go from there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Is there any other matter?
NATALIE MENTEN: Ma-am to-LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead, Natalie.
NATALIE MENTEN: One item, as I spoke to-- I just happened to talk to John this morning, but- and he'll put on this request. But one thing that was of interest to me to be shared with the board,
it may just-- somebody's already kind of built a database around this-- is what are the available
options for the board of directors, as to community meetings, as we move forward into the rest of
the year, whether that be a spreadsheet that lists here's Zoom, here's Google Meet, here's this, here's
this, here's this. We already belong to this. This one has a limit capacity of this many participants.
And maybe communications has something along that line or IT. But I think it would be of benefit,
especially if one of the requests out of the Reimagine meeting this morning was that we start to
expand the outreach for the June discussion, which is where we really get to the meat of it about
the regional-- the different options about regional coverage and the economics. And so I just
wanted to share that with the Executive Committee, and I know a couple-- I think a couple of you
were in that Reimagine meeting, or at least Peggy was.
But I just wanted to share the ideal time for-- to have that resource list.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin, did I hear you?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I think you heard Director Guissinger, but yes, I was in the meeting, and I
agree.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I was in the meeting, too. Yeah, it's good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think it's a great-- I think it's a great idea, Director Menten. I
know that we just all came off of our town hall meetings, which is one mechanism. But I do think,
as we move forward, a lot of us have been doing live Facebook kinds of things in our different
areas.

But I do think that yeah, we're in the world that is so different-- Zoom, Google Meets, all of that
stuff. Mr. Ballard, is there a way for you to get us that information through the Board Office, so
we can share that with the board, if they want to set up meetings in their communities?
PAUL BALLARD: Oh, I'm sure we can. I will work with Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So-- yeah, this is Barbara McManus. So we've already asked for what
those resources look like from-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --a better [AUDIO OUT] on our IT team. We haven't gotten a response
yet. But I also think that Pauletta needs to be looped in. And, you know, I don't-- I don't know what
it looks like. But, you know, we-- I would think that we wouldn't want, you know, 15 directors,
you know, having their own meetings representing RTD without some sort of staff or some sort of
agenda or some sort of structure to it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. All right. If we could get something, I think that would be
great, so at least we know what the parameters are. But I personally always think it's so helpful to
have the RTD staff in attendance, because they know so much more than I do in terms of specific
components and logistics. So thank you for that. Thank you, Director Menten, is there anything
else?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Shelley.
SHELLEY COOK: I don't know how else to bring this up, but we have the Executive Committee.
It gives us an opportunity to raise issues like this, so I wanted to ask Mr. Ballard about our social
distancing. The day after our Tuesday meeting, Pauletta's clips had a Q&A with one of the local
papers that had some numbers in there about the times we're calling out. And it said in the first
two weeks after the pandemic plan had been implemented, we'd had 1,548 call-outs for additional
buses, because a load was too-- was 15 members or 15 passengers or more.
And so that-- they then further broke it out. 29% of those were on the 15. I think 13% were on the
16. 8% were on the 0. So again, it was information but with some specifics that Mike Meader had
provided previously. If we're, on average, 442 times a day or something in that two weeks, calling
out an extra vehicle, and if a good third of them are in one or two routes or half are on two routes,
shouldn't we be just adding scheduled service there or stationing the loop extras onsite at the Civic
Center? I just am wondering if we are doing that, and can we do that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. Yeah, this is Paul Ballard. That's exactly what we're doing. We're
stationing the backup buses or the shadow buses where these larger demands for services are
located. And so the buses can plug in very quickly. So no, that's the practice we've been doing

since April 19. And they are stationed close by so that they immediately plug in. So we are doing
that.
SHELLEY COOK: So does it make sense, instead, to-- I mean, since we know they're getting that
busy that frequently, what I'd hope we could do, and it had been indicated on March 31 we could
do, is feather service in on those routes. So are you-- do you have identified a place where you'll
do that when it reaches 40 backup instances a day? Or do you-- what's your sense for when that'll
happen?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, it doesn't happen the same way every day. So you'll have one day where
you have a lot of people show up at a certain time, and so we've got the flexibility, and the bus is
stationed there. We're not seeing the repetitive same time of day, same location. It's really kind of
all over the board, and that's why we're positioning to be nimble and fluid, so we can respond
quickly.
And so right now, it works better to just have buses available close by where those instances tend
to occur, and then we-- and we plugged them in instantly.
SHELLEY COOK: You haven't-- is that, in fact, the case? Because one rider told me people get
really mad when they get passed up, and it's not clear to him how soon the next one comes. Does
one always come within, like, minutes, or how long is it generally? I hate to press you on this. I'm
just-- because I've seen recently, as I told you, buses that are pretty full, and if we've got people
idle, then I'm just wondering if we can't get them in there. That's my first thing.
The second thing is masks. I know we're really reluctant, but I'm willing to bet that we got a bunch
of, based on what I heard at the town halls, and if we're beginning to think about how we can assure
people a kind of safe and open, as they're terming it out here, can we-- I think, personally, we ought
to move to requiring masks to be consistent across the system, and then developing our posture. It
doesn't have to be overbearing.
I was just looking at Via's website. They, after Bexar County, said that masks are required, have
adopted it as their own requirement. And they are saying you may not be allowed to board. They're
kind of indicating it's not going to be a harsh enforcement, but it, I think, helps to up compliance.
It provides for consistent messaging. And once it's in place, then we could work on efforts to make
masks available.
I handed out masks yesterday at Decatur for the 15, 16, and 31, and people readily took them and
put them on. So I think-- I believe we ought to do that. I just wanted to get your reaction on that.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, masks are required by law, regardless of what we say. So we've-- I mean
we're saying that masks are required. We have recordings now that remind people that masks are
required when on public transportation vehicles or waiting for public transportation vehicles. So,
you know, we are reminding the public. And one of the goals that the board established and that
we'll be approving shortly is that we're making every effort to be able to distribute masks and hand
sanitizer, no later than July 1, to as many passengers as we can. So we are pursuing that.

Our procurement department is making extra efforts to order as many extra masks as they can. I
think we've successfully taken care of our employees, and now we're starting to build up a stock,
so we can actually distribute them. And then we'll probably go with like the Purell hand sanitizer
individual packets, because those are much easier to distribute than some sort of container. So, you
know, we are using that as well and moving in that direction.
SHELLEY COOK: So in terms of making and adopting or embracing the requirements so that
we're not saying, just in the city and county of Denver, but we are saying that because it's a number
of municipalities have imposed this, we're making it our requirement, too, not just because of that,
but also because we want people to know we're doing what we can to help them be safe on our
vehicles, especially since, even with 15 as a maximum, my experience is that 15 onboard most of
our vehicles with the front third roped off is-- it's impossible to maintain six foot of distance. It
just is. And I saw hundreds of people. I can't tell you how many people were getting on and off
buses at that one particular location. So it seems to me that we're building.
I hate to-- I hate to be such a pest on that, but it does seem like it's pretty important. I'll stop at that.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Cook. Anybody else with any
other matters? Going once, going twice, OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm Menten. I'm sorry. I do have one question going back to the
accountability committee.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead. Go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: It sounds like things are in the works to create an independent committee?
What is that looking like?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger, I'm going to let you respond to that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. [CLEARS THROAT] We're going to get a letter out, hopefully
today, with the draft letter to the governor and a separate letter to all the board that says that we
believe-- and this is a good topic for the Executive Committee-- I've talked to several-- but that to
get ahead-- and this is also based on the strong advice from Brandeberry McKenna. You know,
the concerns at the legislature and, obviously, in the letter from the governor are not going away.
And whether or not we can make him go away this year, they'll be back.
And so we feel like it is actually the chair's suggestion-- I think it's a great one-- that we just go
ahead and create a committee ourselves. And I think that the critical piece, only what we're asking
the board to do is give us feedback on what needs to be looked at and who, either specific people
or types of people, they would recommend for to be on the committee.
And we have the description of the accountability committee that Senator Winter added to SB151
that talks about the different people. They have the governor appointing an urban planner, and they
have somebody else appointing a finance specialist. And they have the Senate Minority-- or the

House Minority leader-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me-- appointing a local government person.
So we kind of have-- and somebody that's a representative of the disability community.
And so those are some of the types of people that are on there. I think, you know, what we want
to find are people that would be respected, where the governor and the leaders of the transportation
committees and at the legislature would say, oh, yeah, those are independent people. They're smart.
They understand transportation. They could do a good job, and I think-- well, I had a conversation
with Matt Gray a couple of weeks ago, and he said-- I said, well, what are you going to do about
the fiscal note, $1.8 million?
And he said, well, it won't be that high. It'll probably be several hundred thousand dollars, and we
expect just to charge that to RTD, which is a great-- a good-- of course, not a great solution from
our point of view. But what I think it says is that we have to have some budget for it. And, you
know, it probably takes some consultants. I don't know if we can use some of our Reimagine
financial consultants.
But that's kind of the outline of the process. I'm hoping we can get the letters out today and to the
board. Does that help? Other questions, concerns?
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I am wondering, going back to --. That's what I meant-- independent
committee, then, then just revisiting the discussion about an internal subaudit committee. I'm very
focused on the CARES Act. I've personally passed through the spreadsheet of everything that's
under that account right now, which we've-- it's been billed, hopefully, or ask for reimbursement
of $66 million. But keeping a close eye, like quick, like just getting our committees together and
all those different things, that'll be-- and knowing our world needs to do something like that.
So I'm really focused on especially the CARES money, and again, I'll raise my hand, is
volunteering, to be a member of an internal subaudit committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So you're suggesting a separate committee that would look at the CARES
Act funding? I kind of like that idea. Is that what you're suggesting?
NATALIE MENTEN: It-- if that's something that will move forward very quickly. I do think this
is something that kind of goes back to the 2010 legislative audit and a suggestion that was made
there. I've got it open, but unfortunately, when I do a search for audit, it comes up with 213 hits.
But yeah, the CARES Act, because that was specifically brought out in the letter from the
governor, and I can move forward quickly. Keeping my eye on that as soon as possible, and
providing, perhaps, an update to the board. I don't know how many people know how much has
been spent to date. I had to make a request to get that information. I am still waiting on the
spreadsheet.
So I'm open to that, whether-- however it happens.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I think-- may I-- is that OK, Chair, if I-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I think anything we do now to reassure the governor and the legislature
that things are being carefully-- you know, that oversight is being done, and I think an internal
committee while we're creating an external committee, in my opinion, could be a good idea. You
know, it's been said to me a couple of times that yes, we get reimbursed for operations, but the
question is, what's included in those operations, and how are those decisions being made? So I
think it's an interesting idea.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And then I do have-LYNN GUISSINGER: [INTERPOSING VOICES].
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead. No, just-- just-LYNN GUISSINGER: I was just going to [INTERPOSING VOICES].
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. I don't know.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair, I don't know what you feel that committee might look like. But
I would suggest that it be a committee of two, much like the ad hoc committee that does the
oversight of the finances through legal. And that team of two could report back to the board, as
Director Menten is saying.
I also know that there will be an audit done through FTA on those funds. So there will be oversight
over and above what we particularly are looking at internally in the agency. And then I have a
question for Director Guissinger. In the letter that you forwarded to everybody for review, to the
governor, you mention that you were going to be attaching a brief overview for you and your staff.
What does that attachment look like, and where is it coming from?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry, it came from Heather. And actually, through Paul Ballard. And I
assumed that was from Heather. Paul can probably address that more directly. We've got it to
Brandeberry McKenna to be shared already.
You know what? I need to-- I was redrafting that while we were talking. So I'm going to take
another quick look at that letter. I may send another slightly revised version to Barbara before
everybody goes through it. But if we can do that in the next hour and get it turned around, so we
could get it out to the board today, that'd be really great.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Well, if you could include-- if you could include the attachment
that you're talking about, so there's no confusion for the Board Office in getting this out to the
governor.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Am I right, Paul, that that attachment is OK, that that was intended to
go out publicly like that? I mean, we sent it to Brandeberry McKenna, so I assume so.
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah, no, it's fine. And if you don't have it, I have it here. So don't worry about
it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Great, if you don't mind, that'd be great. All right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I guess I have one more thing, if we're done with that, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Just that I thought we had a really good Reimagine RTD meeting this
morning, and especially we could go into small groups and talked a little bit. And you know, there
was a lot of talk about sort of the how we do look at the future, and you know, I'm thinking-- we
have so many questions coming up as we bring service back in. And do we go back to full fare,
July 1st? Wouldn't we do that later? What's telecommuting going to look like?
And I assume that Bill Van Meter and his team are doing their best to make some projections. But
we haven't really grappled with all of those things as a board. And you know, it's sort of tricky
with a board of 15, but I do think that-- and it's certainly very tricky right now, where we don't
know what the future holds. But I would certainly welcome that conversation. If the Reimagine
group was having it, it'd be nice for the board to be having it, too, in some context.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Yeah. Director Catlin and Director Menten, you were both
at that meeting as well. I've heard, just prayfully, that that's exactly-- people were talking about
that. Do you want to add anything to it?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I think Dr. Guissinger captured it. I thought it was a really good discussion,
and it was-- I know that there had been some concern that we were continuing down the Reimagine
path, as if COVID-19 had not happened. And I think they did a good job of pivoting toward really
facing it head on this morning. So there were some really good discussions. I think in the small
group, especially. So I think the board ought to have that discussion.
It's the stark reality of the time. And I think we need to really face it. So thank you. Hey, Director
Guissinger, did you want to talk about the Via issue?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I actually-- yes, I think it's a piece of the oversight committee. But actually,
I was just-- I'd need to talk with Paul about it first, I think.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Paul, are you available this afternoon to talk?
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah, after the-- after the next committee meeting, sure.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. If we can plan to do that, it'd be great.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I-- I wanted to add my two cents worth, if I could, about an internal audit
type of oversight of the CARES Act, I think, or even subsequent acts if we get any funding for
anything going forward, I think that's a really good idea. I don't think that most people understand
that these dollars are reimbursement-based and not just grant-based. So I think really getting the
good understanding about that is important.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I would have to agree with you completely. I think that is
very important to get out there. OK. Anything else?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so I want to go to the agenda item that is under other matters for this
meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: And that's the ABA committees. And I am looking at packet page six, and
I can just read this off. It's very short, in case somebody does not have it in front of them.
What the bull-- the bullets that I wanted to ask about is-- says, although APAC went through major
restructuring about four years ago, we think there's an opportunity to recommend some new
changes that would essentially enhance the efficiency of APAC. And the first bullet point, which
is in red, states, propose that APAC adopts the steering committee made up of at least five RTD
Senior Managers or AGMs.
And I got a little bit of a-- I don't know-- a little bit of a concern that when I see steering committee
made of RTD Senior Managers, that, perhaps, the APAC committee potentially use that as some
control and take it maybe out of their hands because of the word "steering committee." Could I get
some feed-- it doesn't have to happen right now at this moment-- could I get a little reassurance
that APAC has been presented that? What's their feedback? Is that going to potentially blow up on
us?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Can we get back to you on that for sure?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Yes, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Anything else under other matters? [BEEP]
OK, hearing none. I'm going to-- hold on before I do that, I'm going to a adjourn this meeting.

Seeing none at 12:18, and I want to thank you for being on this call. And then we have our GMOC
meeting at 1 o'clock. So you guys have time to go grab some lunch.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thanks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Bye.

