Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, February 7, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C

Status
Remote
Absent

Arrived

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District F
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Absent

6:15 PM
6:22 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

6:16 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:15 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Present

6:15 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale

Director, District G
Director, District M
Director, District H

Absent
Present
Present

6:14 PM
6:16 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Jeff Walker

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District D

Present
Present
Present

6:15 PM
6:14 PM
6:13 PM

Kate Williams

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:16 PM

Directors Archuleta, Folska and Mihalik were absent. Director Anderson participated via
phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Chessy
Brady, Jeff Cluphf, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Sherry Ellebracht,
Terry Emmons, Ken Fleck, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Chris Harmon,
Kate Iverson, Adrian Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, John
McKay, Barbara McManus, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Henry
Stopplecamp, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, William Gross, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• Termination of Lease between the Fiddler’s Business Improvement District
and the Regional Transportation District
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to terminate the Lease between the
Fiddler’s Business Improvement District (FBID) and the Regional
Transportation District (RTD) for additional public parking spaces for RTD
transit customers in the vicinity of the RTD Arapahoe Light Rail Station on
the west side of I-25. Proceeds of this transaction will total $1,100,000,
which will be deposited in the Operating Reserve for the base system.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the February 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs, introduced Susan Altes, Senior Manager of Real
Property, to give the presentation.
Susan Altes explained that when the original lease between
Fiddler’s Business Improvement District (FBID) and RTD was
initiated it was during a time when RTD was unsure exactly
how many parking spaces were going to be needed at the
completion of the TREX line. She noted that at that time RTD
agreed to pay $35,000 a month for a little over 1,000 parking
spots. Susan Altes stated that eventually it was discovered
that RTD patrons only used approximately 470 of those spots.
The reduction of spaces needed resulted in an amendment to
the contract to reduce the amount of spots RTD needed. With

that amendment, Fiddler’s Green agreed to a repayment
agreement of $1,388,485, which included the repayment for
what RTD had paid into parking plus interest. She made
mentioned that FBID also came to RTD in 2011 to negotiate
the termination of the lease but FBID was unable to follow
through. Ms. Altes explained that FBID revisited the
termination of the contract late last year. She said that FBID
will have to pay $1,100,000 to terminate lease. The first
payment is due to RTD by January 31, 2017 in the amount of
$800,000 with 340 of the 470 parking spaces released back
to them. Their second payment of $300,000 is due on, or
before January 2018.
Director Broom asked if the motivation behind terminating the
contract is so more buildings can be built on this land. Susan
Altes replied by saying it is partially the motivation, but FBID
wants to ensure parking for new businesses coming into the
district.
Director Broom asked how the final figure was determined.
Susan Altes explained that it was determined by the asset
type.
Director Francone asked if there were any sanctions placed on
FBID when they failed to fulfill their contract in 2013. Susan
Altes stated that the agreement was terminated by lack of
funds. Director Francone asked if there were any early
termination penalties. Susan Altes replied that there were no
penalties assessed.
Director Tisdale questioned why patrons are using the Park-nRide across the highway instead of the lot on the west side
closer to the lightrail. Susan Altes responded that the Park-nRide on the east side of the highway is more accessible. The
lot to the west of the highway is located in a neighborhood
with some difficulty to get to.
Director Sisk asked what guarantees that FBID has to
demonstrate they will be able to fulfill their payment obligation
this time. Susan Altes ensured that FBID would fulfill their
agreement.
Director Anderson stated that this is an excellent idea.

Director Broom asked if those parking spaces are used during
special events. Susan Altes replied that those spaces are only
used for Fiddler’s Green special events.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
REMOTE:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,
Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Anderson
Ernest Archuleta, Claudia Folska, Ken Mihalik

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously

• Approval of 2017 - 2019 Granite Paver Maintenance Contract for 16th
Street Mall Transitway Lanes
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee,
to execute all documents necessary to execute the three-year contract for
16th Street Mall Granite Paver Maintenance with Colorado Custom Rock
Corporation, in the dollar amount of $2,865,102.16. Funding for the first
year of this action is $915,680 and is included in the 2017 Adopted Budget.
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the February 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp stated that staff is requesting to hire a
contractor to maintain the pavers on the 16th Street Mall per
the Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and
County of Denver.
Henry Stopplecamp introduced Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Senior
Manager, Engineering/Chief Engineer to provide a more in
depth overview of the proposal.
Jyotsna Vishwakarma stated that staff typically puts out a bid
every three years. Jeff Cluphf, Park -n- Ride Construction
Manager, said his team is always looking for ways to do it
better and cheaper and the team is familiar with what type of
work is needed to maintain the mall. A request for bids was
submitted with the required specifications and now staff is
requesting to award the bid to the lowest bidder.

Director Francone stated that the math in the proposal did not
match up to what was presented. Jyotsna Vishwakarma
stated that prices were adjusted each year in anticipation of
cost of living increases.
Director Francone asked Henry Stopplecamp if he could
anticipate a solution to the high price of maintaining the mall.
Henry Stopplecamp stated that the contract is a year-by-year
contract and it is based strictly on work orders. If there are no
work orders, then the contract goes away.
Director Tisdale asked if the contract only covers the pavers
where the MallRide shuttles travel. Henry Stopplecamp
affirmed that this contract only covers the area where the
MallRide shuttles travel.
Director Solano stated that the previous contractors assigned
to maintain the pavers went into bankruptcy. He proceeded to
ask if Gallegos Corporation submitted the bid that lost. Jeff
Cluphf confirmed that Colorado Customs bid lower than
Gallegos Corporation and that’s why they were awarded the
contract. Director Solano stated that Gallegos Corporation
knew the work that was involved in maintaining the pavers
and knew that’s why their bid was higher, to encompass all of
the costs in maintenance of the pavers. Director Solano also
stated that in his opinion, Gallegos Corporation would have
been the better vendor.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
REMOTE:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 1]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Tisdale,
Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Anderson
Natalie Menten
Lorraine Anderson, Ernest Archuleta, Claudia Folska, Ken
Mihalik

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Bridge Inspections
Henry Stopplecamp introduced Ken Fleck, Team Lead/ Structural Engineer to
give an overview of the inspection program.

Ken Fleck explained that RTD is responsible for inspecting 102 bridges with
14 of those bridges being freight rail bridges. Within this inspection process
bridges are inspected for structural deterioration and overall safety. Ken
Fleck stated that RTD has used the same external bridge inspection service
for the past 15 years. Henry Stopplecamp added that bridge inspections are
a preventive maintenance but also stressed that they are a requirement from
Federal Railroad Administration and American Public Transportation
Administration.
Chair Hoy asked if both RTD and the freight company inspect the freight and
commuter train bridges. Henry Stopplecamp replied that only RTD does
inspect all of the freight bridges and Denver Transit Partners (DTP) inspects
the commuter rail bridges with the exception of Denver Union Station.
Chair Hoy stated that he was under the impression that the pedestrian
bridge at the Westminster station was being inspected by BNSF Railway.
Henry Stopplecamp replied that Westminster station is considered a tunnel
and Denver Transit Partners inspects that tunnel and BNSF periodically
checks it.
Director Broom asked if there were any continuing conversations between
RTD and The City of Aurora about the pedestrian bridge at 9-mile. Henry
Stopplecamp replied the City of Aurora has reached out to RTD and they
have planned to meet soon.
Committee Chair Lubow asked why RTD does not have in-house inspectors
for this type of work and Mr. Stopplecamp stated that RTD does not have
the in-house resources to offer this niched specialty and the independent
inspectors take on the liability of their inspections on those bridges.

• I-25 & Broadway Station
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, introduced the team
working on the I-25 & Broadway Station project; Kate Iverson, Manager of
Transit Oriented Development, and Jenifer Ross-Amato, Deputy General
Counsel. Bill Van Meter explained that they would go over presentation of
project to the Board.
Kate Iverson gave a brief overview of the station for the new Board
Members. She provided the history of the station, the transit operations,
physical layout, the expansion area, planning stages, activity around the
station and the next steps in development.
Jenifer Ross-Amato explained that there are several public entities looking at
forming an Inter-Governmental Agreement. She asked the Board to share
any concerns with the team regarding the I-25 & Broadway Station, so they

may be shared with the other entities. She stated that RTD’s main objective
is to ensure that there is no impact to service during this transition.
Director Williams asked for confirmation that the private organization that
owns the former Gates land, the City and County of Denver, and RTD are
the entities involved in the project. Kate Iverson said the other parties are
the urban renewal authority (URA) and a metro district created by a prior
developer that will own and construct much of the public infrastructure on
the private organization’s land.
Director Williams then asked for confirmation that RTD is entering into a
partnership with two entities and not the other two. Kate Iverson responded
that RTD has adopted an approval process governing how RTD responds to
unsolicited proposals from private development entities. She said that RTD
has not been given a proposal and that it would not be appropriate to enter
into a development agreement with an unfamiliar entity. She said RTD is
looking to work with the City and County of Denver and the URA to ensure
that RTD is part of the decision-making process.
Director Solano asked who owned the land under the flyover. Jenifer RossAmato stated that RTD owns it with a small triangle belonging to BNSF.
Director Solano stated that it is his understanding that this area has free
parking. He asked if the lot will convert to paid parking once it is paved.
Kate Iverson stated that there is not a specific plan for that area at this
moment. She reminded the Board that this will be a 25-year process, similar
to the build out of the Stapleton Development Area.
Director Walked stated that he participated in the initial task force for this
proposal. He remarked that he uses this station a lot when he uses the bus
to get to the train. He emphasized that he is interested in the design features
of the designated area in regards to the entrance and exit points.
Director Francone stated that she uses this station too and she stressed that
the construction and congestion makes it very difficult to get through the
area. She asked how many parking spaces are currently at that location.
Kate Iverson replied that there are 1050 parking spaces that RTD owns and
another 60 are on a short term lease. Director Francone stressed that the
objective should be not to lose any more parking spaces to developers.
Director Francone requested access to the full plan.
Director Broom asked if there was surplus property that the railroad owns
that could be incorporated in this plan. Henry Stopplecamp responded that
there is BNSF and Union Pacific property in that area, but he does not think
that they would be willing to share that property. Director Broom said this

area could be used for additional parking with a pedestrian overpass to allow
extra space for redevelopment. Kate Iverson stated that there may be
challenges for patrons to access a parking lot in that area.
Director Sisk emphasized looking at the first and last mile, and he is also
interested in seeing budget positive and not budget neutral development. He
emphasized that RTD learned some very valuable lessons with the Union
Station process and gave up properties to get it done. He also stated that
RTD owes it to our taxpayers to bring in a revenue stream.
Director Menten requested more information off line as she has a lot of
questions about Urban Renewal.
Director Williams asked if there are any relevant lessons to be learned from
the Alameda Station redevelopment. She stated there is some retail in that
area that is contributing to that plan. Kate Iverson said that the City and
County of Denver and the URA are interested in rescinding and reinstating
the urban renewal plan issued in 2001.
Director Walker stated that there needs to be accurate community outreach
to the constituents to inform them that there may be more parking within
the neighborhoods if parking spaces are abolished. He said the area is
walkable, so there may not be as much need for parking.
Director Anderson declared that this is a great idea to work with our
partners in Denver. She also specified that we need to protect the way our
commenters use this area, but at the same time, RTD has an excellent
opportunity to make this a great place.

• 16th Street Mall Transitway Rehabilitation Project: NEPA Process Update
Bill Van Meter introduced Susan Wood, Planning Project Manager, to give a
brief overview of the 16th Street Mall transit way.
Susan Wood explained that any projects that are federally funded need to be
vetted through National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).
Susan Wood proceeded to give a more in-depth history of the mall and
stated that historical importance of the historical design by I.M. Pei could
affect any reconstruction in the future. She explained that RTD has
participated in various studies over the years to find out the best practices
to mitigate the cost of the upkeep of the pavers. She said that through this
process it was evident that the scope of work needed to be broadened to
include the City and County of Denver. Susan Wood said that the scope
needed to encompass such factors as location, transit lanes, livability
factors, how the mall is being used, and how adjacent areas are being used

by pedestrians and visitors. She stated that the revised scope should
include environmental clearance, an environmental assessment, and a
preliminary design.
Susan Wood said in moving forward, RTD and the City and County of
Denver are discussing partnering for this project. She stated that the
environmental assessment and preliminary design would involve cost sharing
between the two agencies. She added that RTD’s own studies regarding
the mall will add value to the study that City and County of Denver will be
spearheading. Susan Wood stated that the City and County of Denver will
initiate an RFP for consultants for this project with RTD participating. She
also noted that a communications team has been formed between the two
agencies to keep both agencies informed throughout this project.
Susan Wood explained that in the first quarter of the year the committee’s
goal is to complete the procurement process. She said in the second quarter
of the year the consultant will begin work on the environmental assessment,
alternatives analysis, and the preliminary design. She stated that the goal is
to have the assessment completed by the end of the year.
Director Menten asked if the scope was being broadened to include other
parties and to spend more money. Susan Wood responded that there was
significant discussion about issues outside of just maintaining RTD’s portion,
and the conclusion was to work on all 16th Street issues at the same time.
Bill Van Meter stated that the Board is in alignment with the staff, who want
to limit our exposure and reduce, or eliminate, costs involved with
maintaining the pavers.
Director Menton asked what the annual maintenance cost would be if RTD
replaced it with concrete. Henry Stopplecamp stated that it would not cost
RTD anything to maintain concrete on an annual basis. He informed the
Board that RTD’s goal is to hand it over to Denver because it is a City street.
He then stated that the only reason we are maintaining the mall because of
the granite pavers and an agreement RTD made in 1984.
Director Solano asked if the Historical Society is still giving RTD push back.
Susan Wood stated that they will definitely be able to weigh in on any
decisions that are made.
Director Francone asked for clarification regarding how much of this project
is roadway. Bill Van Meter confirmed that approximately 30% of this
project is roadway related.
Director Walker stated that he is in agreement with this proposal. He has
participate in a large number of environmental assessments in the past and

said they are constructive and it will help identify the impacts at the larger
scope.
Director Anderson stated that the 16th Street Mall Shuttle is one of our best
services. She followed up by saying that it would be great to reduce our
maintenance costs and stressed that City and County of Denver’s entities
typically take care of roadways; however, our past agreement has keep us
tied to the maintenance. She stated that she trusts that RTD staff will have
the Board’s best interest in moving forward.

• Corridor Updates
Henry Stopplecamp gave an update on the B, G, and R Lines and the
University of Colorado A Line. He said that the FRA removed the 10 mile-per
hour restriction at the BNSF at-grade fuel crossing and granted the
University of Colorado A Line waiver, which would allow testing to resume
on the updated hardware and software installed by Denver Transit Partners
(DTP). He said that the issue with the gates was that they remain lowered
10 to 15 seconds longer than intended, though he stated that the gates are
safe. He said that forward progress was being made to resume testing on
the G Line.
Henry Stopplecamp said that the next step for the University of Colorado A
Line would be for DTP to remove flaggers and for RTD to receive approval
from the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) and proceed with the quiet zone
process. He said that ridership on the A Line was still strong, with17,000
boardings per day, 87% of which are on time and 97.7% of which are
within 15 minutes of schedule. He summarized that the University of
Colorado A Line delivered good performance and said that DTP had
prioritized eastbound runs to the airport rather than westbound runs toward
Denver. He mentioned that the Arvada parking structure opened the previous
week and said that RTD will receive spots in the adjacent parking lot
following the open G Line opening. He said that the 41st and Fox and Pecos
stations along the B Line would be opened on the upcoming runboard. He
also said that the R line would open on Feb 24th.
Henry Stopplecamp stated that the R Line crossings are working as intended
and that those particular crossings are different from those along the
University of Colorado A Line. He said that RTD has received signoff from
the PUC and City of Aurora with regard to the R Line crossings.

D. Other Matters
Chair Hoy notified staff that the Study Session scheduled for Tuesday,
February 21, 2017 had been cancelled.
Chair Hoy reminded the Board and staff that last year there was an audit on
Free Ride Passes. He said that in this audit, the findings showed that RTD
gave out Free Ride Passes, in the amount $1 million dollars. In the past, the
Board of Directors would get their passes and distributed them however they
wanted but that will not be the case in moving forward. Chair Hoy stated
that the reason he is bringing this up in Other Matters is because there is not
Study Session next week. He said that some Board members have asked
for their passes and he wanted to respond to their request sooner rather
than later.
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer/Assistant General Manager of Finance
and Administration, explained that since the Finance division issues the
passes, her department conducted the audit. She stated that it costs RTD
approximately $1.3 million dollars every year to produce the passes. Heath
Copp reported out that through the audit it was discovered that RTD issued
434,000 passes in 2017.
Heather Copp confirmed that passes are given to Marketing in bulk for
surveys and new residence programs, to Board Members for their
discretionary use, for customer service requests, and some are given to Risk
Management for settlements and disaster relief situations. Heather Copp
said that Marketing has agreed not to send out three free bus passes with
initial surveys sent out and instead they will only mail out three once the
survey is completed. She also mentioned that the Customer Service group
hands out less than 300 a year. Heather Copp further explained that if RTD
could reduce the amount of passes given out then doing so will cut down on
printing costs. She stated that in moving forward if a Board member has a
constituent that is upset about a route then they need to forward that
person to the Telephone Information Center (TIC) for follow up and tracking
purposes. She stated that Board members can also forward information to
Barbara McManus, Executive Director of the Board Office for assistance.
Director Williams stated that she needs assistance from public relations on
speaking points. She needs to know what to tell agencies who received
passes in the past from previous directors.
Director Menten thanked Chair Hoy for making this change to the program.
She mentioned that the number of free passes the Board was issued was
shocking, averaging 6700 passes a year.

Chair Hoy said the decision to alter the allotment the Free Ride Passes from
the Board has been made. He also stated that if there is a reason that it
needs to go to a Board vote, then he will ask Rolf Asphaug, General
Counsel, to research.
Director Anderson said she did not understand this decision and she asked
to see the policy written out before it is adopted. She stated that she has
always given the Arvada Food Bank 100 coupons a year as did her
predecessors. She stressed that in all the years she has been in her seat
that she had never misused the passes. She said it was unfair that she was
not involved in this process and no one asked her what she did with her
passes.
E. Next Meeting Date - March 7, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 8:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

