2024-02-15
Audit Committee
BOBBY DISHELL: --circumstance, so-- Thank you.
The Thursday, February 15 Audit Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of 12-- yes,
12:00 PM. No, I'm on Eastern time. 12:00 PM Eastern time, 10:00 AM Mountain Time. I would respectfully
ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note the committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
At this morning's meeting we are providing communication access real time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like access to this service should send an email to the Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. and a link will be provided. Visit rtd-denver.com and a live stream of this
meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged for
today's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute settings on the phone, press
star 6.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson. I am here. Committee member Brendel.
JIM BRENDEL: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Committee member Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: And let the record reflect that Director Davidson is here but connecting to audio. Not
sure how that one shows up as present or not.
But for the record, I see that we also have Director Guzman and Tisdale. That's it. Also joined by
members of staff.
I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would

like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd denver.com.
Are there any raised hands or public comments?
JACK KROLL: Hi, Committee Chair Dishell. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. We
do not have anyone present who has indicated a desire to provide comment.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And I'd note for the record, Director Davidson has joined
us visually and by auditory means.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: There are no recommended actions on the agenda this morning. There are two
discussion items on the agenda this morning. The first item is for the internal auditor review of budgeting
best practices. I'd like to ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to present this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale-- Chair Dishell. I get my committees mixed up. I appreciate
that. Good morning, everybody.
This first discussion item really was a request from the Audit Committee to assist in some budget
enhancements, budget process and reporting enhancements. As the committee committee's aware, of
the full board of RTD had requested some additional information additional reporting information through
the budgeting process and approval and appropriation process that happens towards the end of each
fiscal year.
Staff is working on making some of those enhancements. And RubinBrown was asked to assist in that
effort, looking at best practices and assisting in making potential recommendations to the Audit
Committee regarding that budget process. So I'd like to turn the floor over to our Chief Audit Executive,
Matt Marino from RubinBrown, who will also be accompanied by Dave Haronik, Manager at RubinBrown.
Thank you.
MATT MARINO: Thank you, Doug.
BOBBY DISHELL: Please proceed.
MATT MARINO: Yes. So as Doug elaborated on, at the last Audit Committee meeting we were engaged
in a discussion about the budgeting process with regard to RTD, specifically with a focus around capital
budgeting but overall budgeting as well. And so we did meet several times with Doug and his team and
the budget team. And we have a couple recommended actions that we're going to proceed with, provided
that this Audit Committee is amicable to the recommendations.
So as is discussed in the discussion, I'm at item memo, we're going to review the GFOA checklist for-historically RTD had submitted for the budget certificate from GFOA. And we're not contemplating at this
time submitting for the certificate. But that does not mean that we don't want to consider som e of the best
practices that are in that checklist to make sure that we're including things that are of most relevance to
the decision makers and the users of the budget.
So we're going to go through and review the last two years' budgets and see whether there's areas that
we recommend that we make enhancements or expansions to more closely align with what GFOA is

recommending. And then if there's areas that cannot be implemented due to system limitations or staffing
limitations, we will respond via memo back to the Audit Committee about what our plan is with regard to
those items that might be recommended under GFOA but we are not going to implement.
And then management has already embarked on enhancing many parts of the budget prior to the
discussion we had at the last Audit Committee meeting. So a lot of the budget enhancements were
already in motion, I would say. And so we're going to work closely with Doug and his team to understand
what the requests of the Board and Audit Committee are and make sure that we incorporate those.
And then also, not necessarily included in this memo that summarizes it, several of the internal audits that
we are performing do cover information that feeds into the budgeting process, most namely the revenue
and non-revenue vehicle audits that we will be issuing here shortly, because there's information gathered
about how vehicles are maintained, when they're due for replacement or refurbishment, and obviously
that would have significant budgetary impacts. And so we feel like the existing audits that we have as well
as the recommendations in this memo hopefully will address the concerns of the greater Board as well as
the Audit Committee.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Any questions or comments? Yeah, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair. And thank you, Mr. MacLeod and Mr. Marino for that. I appreciate
this very much in taking a look at this and leveraging some standards. I have a question. During the
course of last year's budgetary discussion, several Directors had raised questions about other transit
agencies and specific budget reporting as it relates to transit agencies in particular.
And so I'm curious whether you had any dialogue about available standards or best practices, for
example, from APTA or otherwise, and whether or not had considered incorporating those. And if you
could just discuss that. That may even also be an area that General Manager and CEO Johnson may be
able to weigh in. But Mr. Marino and Mr. MacLeod, curious if that factored into any of your discu ssions,
given the feedback from Directors during the budget cycle last year.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Mr. Marino.
MATT MARINO: Yes, thank you. We definitely did discuss looking at what other peer agencies are doing.
We discussed a couple agencies to look at and see if they were good comparisons to what we're doing,
as far as what they're doing in their budget documents and what they're showing for supplementary
information within the budget outside of the overall base budget. And so we did look at that. We did
review APTA as well.
And then we're also going to make sure we review any findings that come out of any other monitoring,
whether it be from the Office of the State Auditor, the Department of Transportation, FTA, when we do
these different audits throughout the year and make sure that we incorporate that. But really the overall
driving force behind how we're going to look at specifically around capital is the Transit Asset
Management Plan, because that's really how we have communicated to the greater public on how we're
going to manage our assets and set aside money for replacement and repairs, to the extent it needs to
happen.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, I think that answers my question. I understand-- so you'll be looking at some of
these other broader best practices that are specific to the industry, but the guiding North Star guidepost

here is the GFOA standards. And then having the Transit Asset Management Plan in mind is directing
some of the focus as it relates to transit. So if I've characterized that properly, as per your answer, that
answers my question.
MATT MARINO: I believe it does, and from my perspective.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Hi. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
I'm pleased that you're going to be looking at the capital budgeting in particular, because I've had other
Directors reach out to me with questions about the capital, not only the capital budgeting process but the
Board approval process. And as it relates to our fiscal policy, I think that would be great.
And to quote Director Tisdale, we have kind of the Goldilocks model here. We were erring -- not erring-but we were providing a lot of detailed information for quite a while and then we had asked Doug to kind
of pull back and have a higher level summary of our budgeting. And now I think we need to find
someplace closer to the middle so that Directors are satisfied with the information that we're getting.
So thank you. It was more of a comment rather than a question, but I appreciate the emphasis on the
capital program. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And of course, I'll yield to any committee members who wish to
speak first. But seeing none have indicated, two quick things.
First of all, there is a reference in the agenda to an appendix for 1.C.1, item 4881, internal auditor review
of budgeting best practices, but I didn't see any appendix relative to that. And I wondered, did I miss
something that was attached, or has that not yet been created?
BOBBY DISHELL: That was going to be in my Chair question. So I will look to staff, unless Director
Tisdale and I both have user error, which I will not rule out.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. And I won't rule it out either. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, if I may.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yeah, no, there was not intended to be an attachment to this particular
discussion item. It was going to be mainly the Board report itself and verbal discussions, just to present
where we stand with this activity and also to solicit any feedback. So I apologize, I don't see the
attachment referenced. However, there was not meant to be one.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Well, thank you for that. I appreciate the clarification, because I looked in vain.
The second question that I have is, the report indicates that you'll be able to present some of this
information at the April 16 Finance and Planning Committee meeting. And I was wondering whether we
were going to have-- I know that Chief Financial Officer MacLeod and Finance and Planning Committee

Vice Chair Guzman and I meet before that meeting to go over items. Will we have some predilect relative
to these items prior to the April 16 meeting of the Finance and Planning Committee?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes. Yes, absolutely. As we discussed, Director Tisdale, the work plan for
the Finance and Planning Committee, that would definitely be one of the considerations. We wanted to
get it on the next Audit Committee meeting agenda as a placeholder at this time. As you can imagine,
there's several different items that would impact this particular subject, including discussion of the fiscal
policy, the investment policy, our overall budgeting, and some of the strategic initiatives, as well as the
revenue diversification working group. Want to make sure that all these efforts are coordinated in terms of
recommendations that will be brought forth to the Finance Committee eventually.
So that's our initial timing, pending further discussion with you as Chair of the Finance and Planning
Committee.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Well, thank you very much. And my final comment then is I appreciate this
work. I think it's very important and it's very responsive to concerns that have been raised by Directors,
and thank you for that. That's all, Mr. Chairman.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. If I may take-- oh, yes, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. I just wanted to add a little more color to the discussion,
recognizing that Chair Davidson did make reference to me earlier, because we have been talking about
this, and to Director Tisdale's point, showcasing further collaboration and transparency, this is something
that we have been working on as staff prior to the Directors bringing this full circle, recognizing that some
things were done in a way in which we were trying to address the needs, even prior to me being here, but
wanted to ensure that you all had a clear cut understanding of the process improvements that are
underway.
We're being intentional as it relates to how we're going about planning for expenditures. We're being
intentional in the sense that we are streamlining the process, having one intake mechanism, utilizing
documents in alignment with our Transit Asset Management Plan, our strategic priorities, specifically the
strategic initiatives. We are not pursuing grant funding if, in fact, we don't already have a project
established.
That will address what we have had for a period of time here at this organization with that capital project
carryforward. The process tended to be that let's go after money when a notice of funding opportunity was
produced by a public entity, be it the federal government or at the state level.
And so recognizing what we're going to do internally is go through the various projects, and those project
managers and the executive leaders will have to talk about how they are adhering to the grant
stipulations, if we're falling behind, what are the project milestones, so we don't get into a precarious
position.
And quite naturally, I think most importantly is using nomenclature that the average individual can
understand, as opposed to talking about technical tools infrastructure and things of the like by a name in
which the general public or Board members have no understanding of.

So I thank you all. We look forward to engaging further. I know there'll be conversations with Board
members at the Board retreat in reference to being able to lean in and garnering a better understanding
of what might the work plan entail, because it shouldn't be tactical. We're looking for a strategic policy
direction and reference to what we're trying to do, being good fiduciaries. So thank you very much, Mr.
Chair, for the opportunity to speak.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I think the only sort of request or comment from my end is
with this being the Audit Committee, I know there was a lot of discussion of, hey, we're going to look at
this, or we looked at this and these are the things we're going to pressure test. If you guys wouldn't mind
keeping a log or some sort of note mechanism, just so that when it comes back to the Board, not just for
me, but for future Audit Committees, future Boards, future Finance Committees, that we see, hey, we
looked at this and this is what was best practice and this is why we said yes, or yes, we're implementing
this, or no, we're not. And if the answer is no, just letting us know here's why.
If that wouldn't be too sort of cumbersome, just so that we have a-- not just me, but anyone who's looking
has a clear record of the decisions that were made as that makes its way to Finance and Planning.
Yeah, Mr. Marino.
MATT MARINO: We do affirm that is in our plan to respond to the things that we are doing and also
respond to the things that might be best practices but we may not think is feasible at this time and explain
why, in a written form, so that it's there for perpetuity to review and reevaluate as we go, as the entity
changes in time and maybe we can implement things over time.
BOBBY DISHELL: Figured that would be the case, but just want to make sure we're all rowing in the
same direction.
Any other questions or comments on this discussion item? OK. Seeing and hearing none, the second
discussion item is for the internal audit update. I'd like to ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to
present this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Dishell. This is a standing item that we have on each one of the
agendas for the year and this is really to inform the committee of an update regarding activities that are
ongoing, as well as follow up for previous activities, including internal audits.
So with that, I would like to turn the floor over to Mr. Marino to go through a quick presentation. Thank
you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
MATT MARINO: OK. I'm hoping everybody is seeing the slide deck titled Q1 2024 Internal Audit Update.
I'm seeing some nodded heads, so I'm going to proceed.
So this is something we prepare on a weekly basis as an audit team, but then we also want to make sure
that we present it back to you all on a regular basis as well so that we can let you know where we're at in
the audit process. We understand that the entity is a dynamic organization, as is the world. And so items
change over time in the greater world that may change how we might need to do internal audit.
So I'm going to talk about what we're planning on doing, what we've done, when we're planning on
reporting. But I also want to revisit and make sure that the audit plan that we set out originally, that there's

no modifications or additional emphasis we should put on anything to maybe push it up and make it more
useful so that it gets to you all to make decisions.
So here's our overall update, current accomplishments and status. As I mentioned a little bit earlier, we
have virtually completed the District fleet revenue vehicles review, as well as the non-revenue vehicles
review. The audit is in draft form and we're just working through the last of the management responses to
our findings. And then we fully intend to issue that in time for the April meeting. And as I mentioned
earlier, that will hit on elements of the budgeting process that might be important to how we tackle the
question about what's the best practices for budget going forward.
We've also kicked off our safety review. So we're working through that with their team, and we're on track
to be able to issue that as well. And then we're also working on following up on any issues or corrective
actions that we recommended from prior audits to see if those have been implemented, specifically if
they've already had planned implementation dates they have elapsed. So we're working on that, and I'll
touch on that a little bit later.
There have not been any new risks or challenges that we need to bring to your attention. If we look at the
right, we're largely on track for everything through Q4, slight delays just due to PTO and other scheduling
things, getting all of our responses on the revenue and non-revenue vehicle audits, but nothing that I
would say is anything of significant note.
And that's really the update on the internal audit stuff historically and what we're working on actively. Any
questions on that part?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Apologies. So for District fleet and District fleet non-revenue, you both said,
we're almost there, like we've previously reported, but then you also said, we're slightly delayed. So are
we going to hit at the end of Q1 or not, I guess is sort of-MATT MARINO: We will 100% hit Q1. We were within a razor thin margin of even hitting for this meeting.
So we are very close.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
MATT MARINO: Yes. Sorry for the ambiguity on that.
BOBBY DISHELL: No worries.
MATT MARINO: OK. I'm not seeing any further questions.
So this is the high level look at our internal audit plan. And as a reminder, we kind of implemented an 18month audit plan. So the items in green have been completed. The items in blue are in follow-up phase,
or in process. And then the yellow items are kind of near-term planning. And then the stuff in the either
pink or darker pink are things that will be coming up.
So this is really the point in where I want to ask any feedback from either staff and/or the Audit
Committee, if there's any future audits, mainly stuff that should occur in Q2 or Q3 or 4 of 2024 that maybe
should be pushed up.
Yes, Mr. Haronik, I saw a raised hand from you.

DAVE HARONIK: Thanks, Matt. I just did want to point out since we published this, we did make the
decision to, instead of the financial performance metrics review, being the security review, which is the
one following. That is now in planning and we intend to kick that off with our partner [INAUDIBLE] the first
week of March is what we're targeting for that, once we get on everybody's schedules.
MATT MARINO: And the decision to kick that up was based on our partner had some staff availability. So
we said, well, why not accelerate some of our audit plans, get them done faster so that we're working
from ahead instead of if we were to get pushed behind on something else. So that really was just a staff
availability and trying to get these audits done and in your hands as quickly as possible. But thank you,
Dave, for that reminder on that.
BOBBY DISHELL: I'm just looking and just thinking about the last slide. So our last slide said district fleet
revenue and non-revenue, as well as public safety, should hit Q1. And on this side, it says we're hitting
Q2. So can you-- is that a typo?
MATT MARINO: Meaning that it would be to you all for Q-- that we'll report on it during the Q2 report.
Because technically, our Audit Committee is not till Q2. But it will be completed during Q1, is the
difference in that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. So the written report still be issued Q1.
MATT MARINO: Correct. Yeah. This is when you all will see it in your hands for further thought and
discussion. So sorry for that. I should have clarified that.
BOBBY DISHELL: No worries. And then just in looking at November, the November internal audit plan
against this. It looks like there was some nomenclature changes, which I think is fine, but it looks like HR
recruiting and hiring process was kicked from Q2 to Q3.
MATT MARINO: And I believe some of that was based on either staff schedule and/or projects that were
going on and trying to move it around so that we get the most benefit out of it and also not impede an
ongoing project that may impact it. Dave, does that sound correct to you?
DAVE HARONIK: Yes. And part of it was they had just been audited back for the employee training
program, so a little bit to give them a break and a little bit to move up some of the higher priority.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. And then it looks like federal, state, and local reg review was kicked from Q2 to
Q3, which I, frankly, personally would agree with, just given the way our state legislature timing works. But
just wanted to note if there was another reason for that, or it may have been our own request earlier.
MATT MARINO: That's correct reason why.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great.
MATT MARINO: But I agree with your assertion, Director Dishell. The state legislature is very busy
debating on potential changes. I've read several articles on it. So it may give us some additional time.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. I think going forward, if we could just note where the slipping or where the
pushing is happening, just so we're not having to look back and forth and back and forth.

MATT MARINO: Yeah, we can give a quick-- either we can give a quick assumption, a little blurb on
whether it was scheduling related. We'll just give a quick little summary on why it moved by a quarter or
whatever. And if it moves by Audit Committee discretion, we'll also move those ones.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. Anyone else? All right.
MATT MARINO: OK. So that's the audit plan, and we're going to keep executing it. We have pretty good
momentum and I think we'll continue with that momentum and be able to have a good amount of audits
under our belt by the time we're done with this, our second meeting for the year.
So last time, I'd like to report back to you, and this is a request at the last Audit Committee meeting was to
present to you all our follow-up plan with regard to some of the corrective actions that we had
recommended from prior audits. So you'll see the issue there on the observation number and then the title
and then the target date by which management said they were going to be done.
So it's December 31, '23 for the last three and it's July 24, 2023 on the other items. So we're just working
with management to gather the last of the supporting documentation and responses on those items to
make sure that we can either report back that they've been fully implemented or if there's still additional
work to be done on those items there. And we'll report back to you for the April meeting on those items.
We were also razor thin close on being able to include those into this Audit Committee meeting as well.
But we did want to not forget it and leave it at there for tracking purposes so that it's transparent that it is
being regularly monitored and followed up on.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. I'm tracking a few other deadlines that you all reported on. So I'm tracking
February 29, employee training observations 2 and 3. Are those not listed because they're complete or
because they're lower risk?
MATT MARINO: Go ahead, Dave.
DAVE HARONIK: Yeah, we included anything that was due, I guess, by Q1. So if it's due or coming due
in Q1, it will be reported in Q2.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it.
DAVE HARONIK: And I can add that we HAVE had verbal confirmation that the last three have been
implemented. Typically for process improvements, we do just go by inquiry. However , we are just waiting
to see that in writing for the other potential matters.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. And what about the ones from July?
DAVE HARONIK: That one too we have-- well, I guess we do have in writing that they've implemented,
but we don't have the support for it yet for us to be able to verify and tell you one way or the other.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. I don't know if that's Ms. Johnson or Mr., or who would-- do we have timing on
when we'll be able to get that over to audit so we can close these out?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. Yes, I'll follow up on that. I'm not sure about these specific
items. So I will follow up and make sure that that happens in a timely fashion.

BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Mr. Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Yes. So do you follow up on these on a continual basis? So as soon as the target
date hits, you follow up? Or do you say, we're going to follow up on x number, we're going to set aside a
week to do testing and follow up?
DAVE HARONIK: Yes, the former that you had mentioned. We have a tracking sheet and basically sort
by anything that comes due. And then we will, like sometimes they'll ask for more time, I'm saying in
general, other companies will ask for more time. We'll just make note of it. But we will follow up and
request anything and test those results. So we do set time aside, usually kind of look down the pipeline to
see maybe how many were coming due and how much time we need to devote for that.
MATT MARINO: And especially if they're items that will require follow up via some additional
documentation requests and actual testing, obviously that's a little bit more staffing wise. But if it's merely
of getting an update from the responsible party and getting a response, we have it on our weekly tracking
as a team. And so we make sure that we're regularly working with staff to understand where those are
and push those to completion as far as where they might be in their corrective actions.
JOHN OLENBERGER: And again, process improvement will be done through inquiry and non-process
improvement findings, or non-process improvement items, will be done through testing, which it could
include taking a look at a document that was created or retesting items to make sure that things that
failed previously are now passing?
DAVE HARONIK: Affirmative.
MATT MARINO: Yes.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. And two more quick things. Did you already request documentation to test
the first two items on there?
DAVE HARONIK: Yes, we did. And I was actually going to go back and look at the email because I can't
remember if there's anything-- I believe it was just they had said they were doing it and they were just
kind of meeting internally to make sure that what they were going to send over was acceptable
[INAUDIBLE].
JOHN OLENBERGER: All right. It's just, if you're following up as these come due, that seems like a long
time outstanding to have these first two open. And I'm just wondering, is the delay on-- whose end is the
delay on? And are we able to follow up?
DAVE HARONIK: Well, and the first two were actually put in there with the target date before the-- it was
the target date was before the audit report was published. So typically that's because that's been
remediated during the audit. And so we may actually-- management's response alluded to the fact that
they still had something to do for it. But in reality, we wouldn't have put this date as closed, or actually a
date prior to the audit report being published, if it wasn't fairly certain that it was done.
So I think what it was, these were policy related and they provided an updated policy, and then now, it's
just really more confirming that maybe they had done one quarter's worth of it.
JOHN OLENBERGER: So could we, if the target date changes, could we expand this on the reporting to
the Audit Committee to-- so if the target date was July 24, '23 and for whatever reason it needed to be

extended to, say, November 30, would we be able to get a date that says, this was the target date, this is
the extended date, and then an explanation in meetings that says, well, they need to extend this for these
reasons? And then also in this matrix here, could we get a column that says, status, like implemented, not
implemented?
MATT MARINO: Yeah, we'll add something that basically says corrective action plan in process, and then
we'll put an original target date, amended target date, and reason for movement in target date.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. Because personally, I don't see any issues with audit report issues. I think
they're great and it's a tool to help management improve. Where I do see issues is if there was something
that was supposed to be completed by a certain date and yet it might not hit that exact date. But if we're
not getting it completed, that's where I start to see problems that I want to make sure get addressed.
DAVE HARONIK: And that's a great point that I kind of feel the same way. I think management has
expressed the desire to really push their teams to, if they commit to a target date, that's what they will hit.
So we will definitely report on that. Made note to-- we do have that on our tracker. We just don't have
anything that has shifted at the moment so we can start reporting.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. So recognizing the comments that I've heard, please know that this is critically
important to me and members of the leadership team, recognizing as we have come out the gate going
through a myriad of different things in our people power challenges, not that that's an excuse, but the
training and compiling information, with the holidays as well and some people being out unexpectedly has
caused some delays. But the team is committed to working with our internal audit function to ensure th at
we are adhering to these deadlines. So I wanted to state that for the record. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Given the fact that we only meet like every other month and a lot of this
information has been completed maybe the previous month, or the deadline, would it be possible just to
send out a copy of this matrix in the months that we're not meeting, just so we're not looking back a
couple months to the previous discussion? I might not be making any sense.
I just would appreciate just a kind of an informal update more on a monthly basis than waiting for two
months, because it's clear that some of this stuff, you said you were within a razor's edge of getting it out
to us, that it would be nice to have some of those updated on a more regular basis, even though we don't
meet that regularly. And I will yield to the other Audit Committee members, but I personally think that
would be useful.
I don't want to create a lot of extra work, but just-BOBBY DISHELL: Director, that makes sense to me. And I was about to run through the number of
internal audit items that are going to hit between now and April 11. And it would be good just to get an
interim report maybe after that March 31, with how we're doing, just a monthly written report in the months

in which we are not meeting. That way this meeting can be more efficient and we sort of have an
understanding of what's going on because we still have to report to the Board every month.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Is that something that can be accommodated?
MATT MARINO: Affirmative. We'll work with Board Office to figure out how to best distribute that in
alignment with all of our different policies and procedures we have to follow with regard to transparency
and posting and all that. But yes, we produce this slide deck very regularly. So adding the enhancements
you've asked for and getting it out to the parties that need it, we can produce it monthly for sure, and
probably even more often than that, if the request was more often.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. Anything else on this from anyone?
The one additional ask I'd make is to the extent any of these items are satisfied before February, well, 29- excuse me, 27, which is our in-person Board meeting, it would be great to get that update. Or generally
speaking, it'd be great to get the update just when they're satisfied, just so I can prepare my Board report
one way or the other for the full Board.
MATT MARINO: Thank you. Yes, we'll provide any updates to anything that may have been reported on
that was incomplete that may have moved to completion between now and then.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Perfect. I believe this is the end of the report, correct?
MATT MARINO: Affirmative.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Any other matters to discuss?
So between now and our next meeting, the following, and I noticed in the slide deck they were called
corrective action plans. I believe those are a term of art for us. So if we could use-- in another place they
were called management action plans, I believe. If we could keep those separate, that terminology
separate, that would be great, just to avoid any confusion for the public, unless, of course, I am wrong
and some of those are corrective action plans which are also management action plans.
MATT MARINO: I'm using the terms interchangeably, but we will convert to one single. We are part of
management and we are going to work together with management to make any enhancements. So,
correct. We'll make sure to use one single term.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Between now and our next meeting on April 11, the following internal audit
deadlines will come up. Employee training observation 2, employee training programs oversight,
employee training observation 3, employee training structure. Those are both February 29, 2024. March
31, 2024 is ITGC observation 2, ITGC observation 3, Oracle user access provisioning, ITGC observation
5, Oracle user access changes, ITGC observation 8, Oracle user access reviews, ITGC observation 9,
ITGC observation 10, job scheduling, ITGC observation 11, SOC 1 type 2 reports.
So lots of great work happening between now and then, as well as delivery on five items that were just
listed, which we've got the verbal that they're there, but I know our auditors are still waiting on the backup.
Thank you all, as always. Anything else?

Great. We'll all get some time back. The next Audit Committee meeting is scheduled for Thursday, April
11. Seeing no other discussion, the meeting is adjourned at 10:41 AM Mountain Time. Thank you all.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you, everyone.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.

