2025-07-24
Executive Committee
JACK KROLL: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, good morning. This is the Thursday, July 24 Executive Committee. I'll now
call us to order. We're convened as of 11:15 AM. I respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you're recognized to speak. Please note that Committee Meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting's recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. During today's meeting, we're providing Communication Access
Realtime Translation, also known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an
email to the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who'd like to
access a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's
YouTube page. I'd now like to call the roll for Committee members. First Vice Chair O'Keefe is an excused
absence. Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: I'm here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I am Chair Bouquet. We have four out of our five members present. So we do
have a quorum. I would also like to say, for the sake of the record, I do see Director Catlin has joined us.
Director Larsen has joined us. Director Chandler has joined us. And I believe that is it for non-Committee
members. So thank you all for joining us.
Moving on to public comment. I'd now like to open this up to public comment to anyone who would like to
address the Committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and
immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your
virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct
comments or responses.
However, if you'd like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office
at rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, press
star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being
recorded.

If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted via writing. Comments can
be submitted to the Board Office at the following email address, rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com. Speakers
should begin their remarks by stating their names. And each speaker will have up to three minutes to speak.
Mr. Kroll, do we have any speakers for today?
JACK KROLL: Chair Bouquet, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this time, I see
one individual present with their hand raised. That is Joe Beaver.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Joe, you're recognized. Joe, if you are speaking at this point, we cannot hear you.
JOE BEAVER: There we go.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. We can hear you now.
JOE BEAVER: All right, my name is Joe Beaver. Thank you for allowing me to submit the public comment.
I'm a disabled polio survivor. And I'm here in support of renaming the Civic Center Station to the Wade
Blank Civic Center Station. Wade Blank is a national hero to those of us with disabilities. He was hired as
an Assistant Activities Director at the Heritage Nursing Home in Denver that housed a large number of
younger individuals with disabilities in the 1970s.
He recognized that watching Hallmark Movies and old people dying was not a way for folks to live. He also
recognized that many of the folks there could live independently in their own homes with a small amount of
assistance from a home healthcare provider. He was able to get some apartments renovated to
accommodate people using wheelchairs, and gathered some of the CNAs from the nursing home to provide
a limited amount of home healthcare, such as showers, wheelchair transfers, things like that.
He basically started a home healthcare industry. There's still one problem-- transportation. In cooperation
with RTD, he established Denver as the first major city to have a completely accessible public transportation
system. He formed an organization known as ADAPT, Americans Disabled for Accessible Transportation,
that spread across the nation and led to the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act, the ADA.
Because of Wade Blank, as a polio survivor, I can live a relatively normal life, living and participating in
community activities rather than withering away in a nursing home. Because RTD worked with Wade Blank
to start the Disability Rights Movement, it's only appropriate that the Civic Center Station be renamed in his
honor. Thank you for listening to me.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Joe. Mr. Kroll, are there any further speakers?
JACK KROLL: At this time, I see no further speakers. I do see that Director Ruscha has joined us. Oh, no,
excuse me, Jaime Lewis is present and would like to provide some comments.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. For the sake of the record, before you recognize former Director Lewis, I do
see that current Director Ruscha has joined us and current Director Guissinger has also joined us, for the
sake of the record. Former Director Lewis, you're recognized.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to compliment Joe Beaver for starting this process two years
ago. The staff at the time did not have a naming process. So during the year of 2024, thanks to Director
Ruscha and, unfortunately, the passing of Marjorie, they put together the process in which we were able to
start the process in January of this year. Staff put together and followed those step-by-step instructions that

the Board of Directors gave them. So in order to qualify to be in this position, you have to be a very, very
high stature.
And I just want to say-- I'm not going to go through the whole thing, because I think most of you have heard
my presentation-- but I've been to several ADA celebrations this month, and there was not one session
where the name Wade Blank did not come up, nor the Gang of 19, nor the independent living model that
Denver can so proudly emulate for the rest of the country. So again, I want to thank Joe for starting this
process. And if you have any questions, Joe and I are here to answer those questions for you. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much for your comments, Jamie. Mr. Kroll, are there any further
speakers?
JACK KROLL: At this time, Chair Bouquet, there are no further individuals present with their hands raised.
And in anticipation of your subsequent question, we received no written public comment directly related to
any items on this Committee meeting's agenda or the month preceding.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. With no other participants in the queue, I will now
close this public comment period at this time. All right, moving on, we're going to go into recommended
actions. There are three recommended actions on today's agenda.
The first action under consideration by the Committee is the recommendation for the approval of the RTD
ATU Collective Bargaining Agreement, or CBA. And this would authorize the General Manager and CEO
to execute a 3-year collective bargaining agreement with ATU Local 1001. And this would be effective
January 1, 2025, to December 31, 2027. Do we have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And a second?
KAREN BENKER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. So I have Second Vice Chair Whitmore as the mover and Treasurer Benker
as the second. GM/CEO Johnson and Charlene Polege, our Chief People Officer, would you please present
this item at this time.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, Members of the Board, good morning. Debra
Johnson, General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. In your packet, you have a report in which we're
outlining the elements relative to a collective bargaining agreement with the Amalgamated Transit Union
1001.
I am accompanied by our Chief People Officer, Charlene Polege, who has auspices over labor relations
and whose team, in addition to other members, sat and worked diligently with our labor partners to reach a
successor agreement. At this juncture, I will hand over the virtual mic to Ms. Polege to orient Board
Members to the various tenets that are contained within the contractual bargaining agreement. So with that,
Ms. Polege, the floor is yours. Thank you.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you, GM and CEO Johnson. As introduced, Charlene Polege, Chief People
Officer. I'm here before you today to present on the Board of Director's report with respect to a
recommended action for approval of the RTD ATU collective bargaining agreement. As noted in the Board
report on March 27th of 2025, negotiators for RTD and the Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001 reached

a tentative agreement on a successor collective bargaining agreement after roughly eight months of
negotiations.
Following that time, between March 27, 2025, and June 9, which is when we understand the Union reached
out to its members to commence voting, the parties worked collaboratively to take the agreed upon tentative
agreements through negotiations to craft the final agreement that would go out to the members of ATU
1001. On June 27, 2025, ATU President informed GM and CEO Johnson that 97% of the bargaining Union
membership had ratified that tentative agreement.
This agreement between the parties demonstrates the agency's commitment to meet our strategic priorities
of community value, customer excellence, employee ownership, and financial success. Notable changes
are outlined in the Board report. I will not restate them all here. However, I do want to highlight that the
successor agreement is retroactive to January 1, 2025, and it includes wage progression reflective of 6.5%
increase effective January 1 of this year, 4.5%, January 1 of 2026, and an additional 4.5% wage increase
effective January 1, 2027.
There are additional changes with respect to the health and welfare trust, as well as retirement. RTD has
continued its commitment to ensuring the retirement plan for our represented employees is healthy. And
so, as a member of the trust, I can say that the trust was very pleased with the change of having a lump
sum payment. Because as you can imagine, with the market and the ability for movement, a large lumpsum payment is highly beneficial. So that was another a great win for all parties concerned.
The tentative agreement also includes an overall restructuring and consolidation of the agreement. And this
was designed to better organize the contents so as to enhance flow, increase ease of reference, and reduce
redundancies. Key to that, as you will note in the Board report, is creating a overall transportation section,
as opposed to previously the agreement was bifurcated between bus operations and rail operations. These
changes were designed to enhance readability, ability to reference and understand the CBA for members
of ATU as well as RTD management alike.
Lastly, I would conclude by saying that the financial impact of the negotiated changes are noted in the
Board report. And our Finance Team, under the leadership of CFO Mackey, have made the necessary
fiscal considerations in future years to capture those increases in 2026 and 2027. At this time, I will yield
the floor and take any questions the Committee may have. And I would also advise that I do have Kent
Enwright, our Director of Employee and Labor Relations, who was at the negotiations table also available
for any additional information.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Ms. Polege. I do see Treasurer Benker, you're recognized.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you. Just a quick question. Since this contract goes all the way back to January,
how will our employees then be reimbursed for those, basically, six months or more? Is it going to be lump
sum? And then my only concern there, if it's lump sum, hopefully it's not going to throw them into a different
federal income tax bracket because of all of a sudden the jump in income and it has to be readjusted. So
I'm assuming it's going to be done next pay period?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Polege?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sorry, thank you. Thank you, Director, for the question. So first off, I would say that
yes, it is retroactive. So all retroactive payments are made in a lump sum. At the present time, during the
period when the Union was pulling its membership for ratification, HR, IT, and payroll in particular have

been doing the required work so that this could be implemented as quickly as possible, once approved by
all parties.
And so with that, I can say tentatively that we are targeting the second pay period, full pay period after the
ratification, assuming if it was to be approved by the Board at the Board meeting next week. And so that
would mean that on the 26th of August would be that lump sum payment that would be made. That is in
alignment with previous contracts, because it does take time to get all of the respective changes in place.
And with respect to the lump sum pushing individuals into higher tax categories, it will still equal what they
would have earned. Had the change happened on January 1, 2025, they would still have what that change
in their income would be for that full year. So the lump sum is not going to move them into another tax
bracket, unless that's where that change in income on an annual basis was going to go.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. I see a thumbs up from Treasurer Benker. So I'm going to move
on to Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. I just wanted to say, I know this contract was a particularly significant
amount of work on your part and really the entire agency's part. And I feel like we got to a really good place.
And was incredibly pleased that there were no disruptions in labor.
There were no, other agencies had had issues, and staff was able to get to a place where everybody could
agree and where we didn't run into that. And I really appreciated that. So thank you for your incredible work,
your incredible hard work. I feel like this puts us on a firm financial footing for the years to come, while also
recognizing the important role that our union brothers and sisters play in making RTD run. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary. Director Ruscha?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sorry, Chair-JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, yeah?
CHARLENE POLEGE: --can I respond for a moment?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I would be remiss, Director Nicholson, if I didn't actually acknowledge-- I know you
had said on my part-- the truth is it's on members of the bargaining, the Negotiating Committee put in
excessive number of hours, as well as RTD management, members of ATU leadership. It was really a
collaborative effort of which I would suggest I had the least amount to do with. So I want to make sure that
that acknowledgment is put where it is most deserved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Ms. Polege. Director Ruscha, you're recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to note that I'm on my computer that requires an
external camera. Otherwise, I'd have my camera on. I've been really big about people having their cameras
on when they are talking. So I apologize I can't meet my own expectation for this one.
But I have a couple of questions and a request related to the new CBA for whomever can answer it. First,
thank you, Ms. Polege, for your presentation and this really informative memo. And everyone on staff have
worked on this. I do have a clarification question on the arbitration provision.

Can someone clarify that provision that's referenced in Article I in the memo? So is that provision specific
to the new section? It would be Section 10 in the CBA. Or are there any more situations where arbitration
may arise and that is applicable? Just to clarify. I guess to rephrase it, I should just say, where does the
new arbitration timeline apply?
JULIEN BOUQUET: --the appropriate staff.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Pardon me, Chair Bouquet, if I could ask Director Enwright to respond directly to
that question, given that he was at the table. And I would not want to misspeak.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Enwright?
KENT ENWRIGHT: Yes, Kent Enwright, Director of Employee and Labor Relations. Really, it's very similar
to the prior arbitration section that we had. We did have negotiations about improving the timelines for
efficiency purposes. So that was the purpose and the catalyst is to make that process more efficient. It does
not change the standard grievance and arbitration process that we have had really, other than the timelines.
I will note, however, that we did add in additional language to allow the option for mediation as another
dispute resolution tool. So we all believed at the table that that would be beneficial for those cases that we
can agree that that's the appropriate path forward rather than arbitration. We now have that option
formalized as well.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Enwright. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Is it OK if I continue with a few more?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Absolutely.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. And can I have your permission to dialogue just for speed?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, absolutely.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right, thank you. And also thank you for that clarification, sir. So I have a question
about a vacation accrual, which is similar to what Treasurer Benker just asked. And it might have been
addressed already. So I apologize because I might have missed it on CART. But is that also retroactive,
the new vacation accruals?
CHARLENE POLEGE: May I, Chair? Yes, all terms and conditions within the successor CBA are all
retroactive to January 1, of this year. So the vacation accrual will also be adjusted accordingly in relation to
the contract.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And then one more question and then a kind of request. So Section 7 of
the CBA, I understood that was removed. And I don't know what that section is titled now. But the current
CBA, it's affirmative action and equal opportunity language. Would staff be able to just expand upon the
rationale behind that decision? Or whether those commitments are addressed elsewhere, either in policy,
practice, or in this new CBA?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Staff, feel free to dialogue.

CHARLENE POLEGE: Again, I will defer to Director Enwright. Because I think it's important that the context
from the table be shared.
KENT ENWRIGHT: Yes, thank you. The whole section was removed. It was not added in a different place
in the contract. But the parties, through the dialogue at the table, determined that those topics are covered
appropriately by law and policy here at RTD. So it was unnecessary language. So in really part of our
opportunity to streamline and make the contract more efficient overall, the decision was made by the table
to remove that section.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. That answers my question perfectly. And then I just have a question of
staff. Again, I really appreciate this memo highlighting the major changes. And I was wondering if staff could
also send a copy of the finalized CBA? I know it's ratified upon the Board's approval.
But could you send a copy to the Board and also include it in the meeting packet? Just given that it's a
formal contract and also expounds upon or touches on things that come through our committees, I just think
it's an important and helpful document for Directors to have in their repertoire of references. Thank you.
And that concludes my comments and questions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Any further comments or questions for staff from
members of the Committee or other Directors? OK. Seeing none. Thank you all for a great discussion.
Thank you, staff, for this presentation. We will now move it to a vote. Are there any no votes on this item?
OK, seeing none. This item will pass, 4 yes, 0 no, and 1 absent. Thank you all.
All right, moving on to our second action item. This is going to be the recognition of the Reverend Wade
Blank via honorary name for Civic Center Station. And this is for the Board of Directors to adopt honorary
name for the Civic Center Station to recognize the life and career of Reverend Wade Blank. In adopting the
honorary name, change the name of Civic Center Station to the Wade Blank Civic Center Station. Do we
have a motion?
KAREN BENKER: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Benker as the mover. Do we have a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I have Whitmore as the second. All right, moving on. I will now hand over this
presentation to Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Great, thank you all. Once again, Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. And
I'm very excited to bring today to your attention a recommended action which would see the Board not only
commit to recognizing Reverend Wade Blank and his service to transit and to transit locally, and his
connection with Civic Center Station, but also take the subsequent step of adding an honorary name to
Civic Center Station and changing the name to Wade Blank Civic Center Station.
I am not joined today by Steven Brier. He had some pre-planned vacation. But I want to give a huge shoutout to Steven Brier, who is the Senior Manager of Marketing. He worked very closely with staff on some of
the mockups that you'll see later in this presentation. And another great deal of thanks is owed to Jyotsna
Vishwakarma and her team for coming up with some of the cost estimates and mockups for updating the
signage.

And with that, I'll just start with a quick recap of where this issue is at. We'll go over the overview of a
proposal and then talk about the implementation timeline, share some design mockups, and of course, end
with a cost estimate. And then I'd be happy to take any questions as you all discuss the merits of this
proposal.
So as a reminder, the process is founded on the Board's policy, which, as former Director Lewis highlighted
to you all during public comment, was something you all established after receiving an initial request to
change the name of Civic Center Station. And taking the advice of the Board Office and staff, it was pointed
out you don't really have a process for updating the names of any of your stations in an honorific manner.
And so the Board endeavored to approve a policy. And you all did that in July of 2024.
Subsequently, community members, including Joe Beaver, who you heard from earlier today, submitted a
form via the Board's web page to indicate their interest in updating the Civic Center Station name. And they
subsequently submitted a completed application proposal, which contained a biography or historical
reference to the proposed honoree, letters of support from the community, and of course, a proclamation
in support from the Denver City Council, which was approved earlier this year.
So again, your criteria for considering someone for an honor is that they must have documented
contributions that are significant to transit nationally, documented significant contributions to transit locally,
and/or direct connection with a significant event occurring within the vicinity of the property subject to
potential honorary name. Other criteria, you all have an existing corporate sponsorship policy for stations.
So it cannot conflict with any corporate sponsorships that may exist for a station.
The individual being put forward must align with RTD's values. And it cannot be a former RTD Director. And
the individual proposed must be deceased for a minimum of 10 years. A quick reminder of the timeline
here. I'm not going to go through each one of these steps, but I will indicate again that Denver City Council
passed unanimously, 13 to 0, a proclamation supporting an updated name for Civic Center Station, and
that is Wade Blank Civic Center Station.
I just want to point out here, this was something that Director Ruscha really pushed for and worked with us
in the development of this policy. Director Ruscha had a lot of concerns that the costs of the name change
would be put onto community members to make a change, thus being very prohibitive to the advancing of
any name change proposal from certain segments of the community.
And so the compromise that was reached between that notion and some forces that wanted to ensure that
we weren't opening the floodgates to name changes, was that the city or county in which these stations
reside would have a strong role in the name change process. And by way of that city council resolution, it's
clear that the community here is in support of this updated name. And so I just wanted to stop there and
remind everyone of a key component of this.
And then moving forward, you all last looked at this in June of this year, at which point you provided some
consensus support as a Committee for Staff to put together timelines, mockups of the proposed signage,
and then a cost estimate as well. And we're bringing those back before you today. If you all approve this
action item at the Committee level, it will subsequently go to the Board meeting next week, where it will be
subject to a 2/3 vote of approval to be approved and implemented.
So, again, Reverend Wade Blank was a prominent civil rights activist, very active in the disability rights
community. He founded Atlantis Community Incorporated, which Mr. Beaver spoke to earlier. It was a
advocacy organization that supported individuals with disabilities. And it's actually still in existence today.

They have a property actually in between the Alameda and Broadway stations, where they serve a number
of individuals with disabilities and help them live independently.
And the picture here you see is of Wade Blank and his son Lincoln. A little bit more about Wade Blank. I'll
point out the last bullet item here. He has a strong connection to the property or station under consideration,
having helped to organize the Gang of 19 protest on July 5th and 6th in 1978.
That protest is widely seen as a catalyst for many similar protests that occurred nationwide and brought, in
a peaceful, civil disobedience manner, attention to the challenges that many people with disabilities faced
and continue to face living lives in our modern society. Those protests are also widely seen as contributing
significantly to the passing of the Americans with Disability Act in 1990.
Again, an overview of the submitted proposal. You heard from Joe Beaver earlier. Another community
member, Mark Simon, also submitted a similar proposal. All of these documents are included in the packet.
Many, many letters of support were submitted from a number of different organizations. And of course, a
reminder, Denver City Council unanimously supported this proposed change at their meeting at the end of
April.
So moving on, if you all were to approve this item, here's how implementation would likely go. The name
will be changed throughout the system as feasible, pending available budget, to begin with the January
2026 service change. So this is affording staff some time to get ready, make the necessary preparations,
and roll it all out.
There will be a media/public event held in early 2026 to unveil the updated physical signage at the station.
One possible date for that event, although no specific timeline or date has been set, I should say, is
February 4, which would coincide with Transit Equity Day. This is a mockup. Director Nicholson, at your
previous meeting in June had asked for some examples of what the signage might look like.
And so staff prepared these signs here. And you can see the addition of Wade Blank over the existing Civic
Center Station marquee here. You can see there's a sign within the bust terminal that's very prominent.
And this would be added here. The aim would be to also have these signs illuminated, as the current
marquee is also illuminated so that these would appear visible to people traveling to the station during hours
of darkness.
Here are some examples of how this will be rolled out across our digital assets. And I apologize for the
image quality here being a little grainy. But I think you'll get the gist here. So this is what it would look like
on a web page being accessed via desktop. Here is additional mockups for individuals who might be
accessing this information using a mobile device.
Here is a mockup here. And you can't quite see this. But in the bottom right-hand corner there, it does say
Wade Blank Civic Center Station on the Next Ride app. And again, another Next Ride example. A couple
of examples of what maps might appear with this name change, appears with this name change. So here's
one with the 16th Street FreeRide. And here is one with the free MetroRide.
With that, estimated costs are to be set at $98,000. Predominantly that's coming from the updated marquee
signage at Civic Center Station. There will need to be a fairly thorough design process and installation
process for those. And one note that is in your Board packet that I want to point out here, the funds for this
would be provided, if approved by the Board, from the GM and CEO's contingency fund. And with that, I'd
be happy to take any questions and engage in any discussion on this that the Board may have.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. Before I open up the questions, I just wanted to say I
was part of a Committee meeting, gosh, a couple months ago. And getting to hear just all the stories of
Reverend Wade Blank and his legacy, it was incredible to hear.
And I can't thank you all enough for the amount of work that you guys have put into it. I want to thank
Director Ruscha and then-Director Sloan for all their work for being the catalysts and lighting this fire for
where we're at now. So thank you all who've been involved. And I know it hasn't been easy work, but greatly
appreciate it. Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. I think it's a wonderful presentation. I've learned a lot
about Wade Blank from members of the disability community over the last year during my run for the Board
and service on the Board. And I think this name change is a welcome step in the right direction. I think the
community will be very excited by it.
I do think that we still have a concern around wayfinding when it comes to this. And what flagged it for me
was the rather long version of the name that appears on-- I forget which slide it was, from the map in there
showing from Union Station to Civic Center. I worry about the many different situations where we list the
names of stations in which we have to fit them into a smaller amount of space, in which we have to fit them
into a smaller number of characters.
And so I want to give a little bit of flexibility to staff that in places where Wade Blank Civic Center Station
might be a bit too much of a mouthful or too many characters for a small screen or a small space, that we
are still allowed to label it as Civic Center Station in those occurrences. And so I have an amendment to
the recommended action that I've submitted over to Director Kroll, though I would love to give staff, GM/CEO
Johnson, anybody else who wanted to comment on the need for this an opportunity to do that.
But I guess my question is, what do we do in places where "Wade Blank Civic Center Station" doesn't fit.
And I'd love to have GM/CEO Johnson's comments on how we're planning to address that in the situations
on someone's smartphone or something where five lines of text might be a little bit too much to make it
easily readable.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. So I'm going to actually give this over to Executive Manager Kroll-- not Director
Kroll, but Executive Manager Jack Kroll.
JACK KROLL: I'd be happy to defer to GM and CEO Johnson, since the question was directed her way.
And then I have just one additional piece of information, if she does not cover it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, I appreciate that. Thank you, Chair, and thank you,
Secretary Nicholson, for the question. So when we embarked upon this policy development aspect, we did
our due diligence. When I first came to the agency, recognizing the people that are utilizing the transit
system generally use geographic markers, specifically.
And as you look at a transit map and things of the like, you traditionally have notifiable identifiers. So people
are able to navigate. That was taken into consideration when we went forward and worked in collaboration
with community as well as internal stakeholders and Board members to develop said policy.
So quite naturally, for all intents and purposes, it states in the policy just what this is. It's an honorary name
change. And keeping in mind that Civic Center Station will be Civic Center Station, we are limited in
reference to characters that we could leverage on head signs and things of the like. And all of that was

taken into consideration, was put forward before the Board, at the time acted upon the adoption of said
policy. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So just to clarify, under what's being proposed right here, for things like head signs
and other indicators where space is a significant constraint, the agency's policy will be just to use Civic
Center Station when that is necessary?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So basically, what we're doing relative to honorary names, it is secondary to the
primary aspect of the property. So considering on a head sign, we wouldn't have enough space to put
"Wake Blank Civic Center Station," in certain aspects we would put "Civic Center," if we are limited to
characters. As relates to printed materials and things of the like, where applicable, we would put the
honorary name in addition to the primary name, being Civic Center, for the aspect of navigation.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: That is very helpful. And I will withdraw my amendment.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Mr. Kroll. Anything you want to add?
JACK KROLL: I have nothing further to add, as GM and CEO Johnson hit on the one element there of the
head signs. That was something that was discussed. And obviously, there's not enough characters in those
head signs to fit it. And that was a great example of where the agency will be flexible in deploying this.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Any further questions or comments from Directors? Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Mr. Kroll, for your participation in this process
and for the presentation this afternoon. I just wanted to call attention to packet pages 38 and 39, which
contain the Rubric Overview. So for folks who weren't aware, Directors and staff collaborated to develop
this rubric with the goal of ensuring fairness, consistency, and transparency.
So for all of us who have been a student or a teacher, you know that rubrics help set clear expectations.
But they also require the evaluator to be reflective and intentional in how they assess each area. And so
with that in mind, I just wanted to highlight that for this application, the cumulative scores across every rubric
category came in under the reading of exceeding expectations.
So all members of the review committee rated 23-- there were 24 questions-- but 23 out of 24 as exceeding
expectations, with just one question in one category by one reviewer was rated as meeting expectations.
And so to me, I think that's a solid A+. And it speaks volumes about the strength and quality of this
application. Thank you, Mr. Chair. That concludes my comment.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you for your comments, Director Ruscha. Any further comments or questions
from Directors? OK, seeing none. I'm going to take it to a vote. Are there any no votes on this item? OK.
Seeing none. This item will pass, 4 yes, 0 no, and 1 absent. Excellent. Thank you all.
All right, moving on to our third and final action under consideration. That is the ratification of appointment
of Director O'Keefe to the Operations, Safety and Security Committee. Then this would be for the Board
Directors to ratify Director Patrick O'Keefe's appointment to the Operations, Safety and Security Committee.
Do we have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I have Nicholson as the mover. Do we have a second?
KAREN BENKER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Benker is the second. Is there any discussion on this? Yes, Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So, yes, as one of, I guess, two members of the OSS Committee that are also on
Executive, I just wanted to say that I think that Director O'Keeffe is a phenomenal person. And I never
thought we would get him joining us on the Committee. And I am very happy to welcome him as a colleague,
if only for a few months, potentially. So I think he'll do a fantastic job.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary. Any further comments or questions? OK. Seeing none. I'm
going to take it to a vote. Are there any no votes on this item? OK. Seeing none. This will pass, 4 yes, 0 no,
and 1 absent. Thank you all. All right, moving on to our next item. This is going to be the July Board Meeting
Agenda Review. So based on the vote outcome for the three action items the Committee just voted on, the
Board Office will adjust the Board Agenda as necessary.
Moving on, I'd like to ask now for a motion to approve the agenda for the regular Board Meeting Agenda
for a meeting on Tuesday, July 29, with three changes. Because of the significant public interest anticipated
on two items, I'd like to move those items forward on the agenda to come immediately after external entity
reports and before Committee reports. Those two items are the Access-on-Demand program modifications
and the Collective Bargaining Agreement with ATU 1001.
The third change is to move the Access-on-Demand contract extensions, currently listed as item I on the
agenda, from unanimous consent to recommended actions. This change is being requested, as the item
was not actually approved unanimously at the Committee level. And the Board Office accidentally placed
the item on the Consent Agenda. As such, can I get a motion to approve the agenda with the above
proposed changes?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
KAREN BENKER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Whitmore is the mover. And Benker is the second. Is there any discussion on any of
this? Yes, Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Given the proximity of the AOD issue to the renaming issue, doesn't it make sense
to move that up as well? Because a lot of the people, I would assume, who are interested in the one will be

interested in the other. And so doing them both at the same time and such, not making the people wait,
would seem to be a reasonable thing to do.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I'm happy to have a discussion on it. I'm happy to move that item up as well, if
folks are interested, if we do feel that would be-- Happy to move this item up. Staff, would that be an issue
for you? OK.
JACK KROLL: No issue.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. So let's make note of that. We'll add to the changes, then, that we'll be moving up
the station renaming into after our AOD discussion. So perfect, thank you for the suggestion. With that
being said, are there any no votes with now the updated changes? OK, seeing none. Passes, 4 yes, 0 no,
And 1 absent.
Thank you all. Moving on to discussion items for today. The first item is the Monthly Government Relations
report. And this is for July of 2025. I'll now hand it over to Mr. Michael Davies, our Government Relations
Officer. Could you please present for us?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair, members of the Committee. Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer. I'll start with federal items. With regards to both a reconciliation package and a rescission package,
Congress did complete their work on both of those.
As previously noted, none really focused or touched on transportation funding and don't have a real direct
result of any impacts to RTD's federal funding that comes through USDOT. Most of the attention for
Congress and federal work at this point has really moved on to the annual appropriations process. The
House Appropriations Committees have completed their work on the Transportation, Housing, and Urban
Development Appropriations Bill, which is the DOT funding bill.
There were some significant cuts as compared to last year's appropriations bill and as compared to
authorized levels in the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, which is the current authorization bill for all
USDOT programs, specifically, 8.3% below last year's appropriations bill and 13.9% below authorized
levels. None of those cuts in the House focused on the formula grant programs, which is the primary funding
source that RTD receives at the federal level.
They were all really concentrated in discretionary grant programs, specifically the largest discretionary grant
programs, the capital investment grant program. Now, this is the competitive grant program that funds large
transit projects such as East Colfax BRT. But as many of you may know, RTD received our appropriation
in previous federal fiscal years. So the cuts don't impact RTD's project. It, if the House levels were agreed
to, really would impact future competitive grants within the capital investment grant program.
And then over on the Senate side, the Senate Appropriations Committee actually marked up their
Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Bill earlier this morning. They really stuck to authorized
levels within their bill. So this is setting up a disagreement between the House and the Senate. The Senate
Bill, of course, is done on much more of a bipartisan basis. It does require 60 votes in the Senate to move
forward with the bill, whereas a strict majority in the House can move their bill forward.
So we'll keep tracking both chambers of Congress working through the Appropriations Bills. But that is the
bill that will determine funding levels for USDOT programs that subsequently get passed down through
RTD and is our federal funding. And actually, I should touch on, I haven't seen the mark in the Senate Bill
yet because it hasn't been posted just yet. It should be posted later today.

But over in the House side, as many of you know, we have submitted applications for earmarks. They're
not called earmarks anymore, but it is essentially the same program. It is for direct funding for very specific
purposes. In the past, we have received funding largely sponsored by Congresswoman Diana DeGette's
Office for the Downtown Rail Reconstruction.
And if you all recall, last year's appropriations bills, which never were agreed to and ultimately were
approved by Congress in a continuing resolution, by approving the continuing resolution, last year's
appropriation of $850,000 for the Downtown Rail Reconstruction was stripped of the continuing resolution.
And that is a standard process.
If the actual appropriations bills aren't approved, generally the earmarks associated with them will not go
through in a continuing resolution. So that was the case last year. The House did include that same 850,000
from last year, again sponsored by Congresswoman DeGette's Office. So that is included in the House Bill.
And we'll, of course, be tracking that process through the Senate as well, and keep the Board up to date.
Moving over to state issues-- RTD staff has been in touch with the Colorado Energy Office. The Energy
Office is leading the Accountability Committee 2.0 process that was a part of state legislation this year.
Energy Office is working to procure, essentially, a facilitator and some transit consultants to help with the
administration of that Accountability Committee. They're in the closing process of doing that now. And as
all of you may know, the Committee appointments need to be done by August 1. So that news should be
coming out sometime in the next week here. And of course, we'll keep the Board up to date.
Lastly, I will note that the Transportation Legislation Review Committee has set their schedule for the interim
committee, and those dates are August 25, September 9, and October 21. And RTD is statutorily required
to report to the TLRC. And we'll be working with the Chairs and Staff from TLRC to facilitate that and
schedule a time to report out to TLRC. Moving to the local level, really, continuing to work on engagements
and scheduling that with local jurisdictions.
And I'll just note on June 20, 2025, GM/CEO Johnson, RTD Police Commander Holloway joined Directors
O'Keefe and Chandler with the Arapahoe County as a joint meeting of the Arapahoe County mayors,
commissioners, and city managers that was held, and had an opportunity to present to them and take some
questions. And those are always great opportunities to talk about RTD priorities. So with that, that concludes
my report. I'm happy to take any questions. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Keep engaged, Directors. Thank you very much, Mr. Davies. Do we have any
comments or questions for Mr. Davies at this time? Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Mr. Davies, so you mentioned that we have the appointments to the Accountability
Committee by August 1. And one of them going to be Director, one is going to be a former Director, in
addition to Chair Bouquet. Are we aware of who those Directors will be?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Davies.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thanks, Director Nicholson. I have not been made aware of who those appointments
would be.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Interesting. How exciting.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary. Any further comments or questions for Mr. Davies? Excellent.
Well, thank you very much, Mr. Davies, for your report. Always beneficial, very helpful to know from the
local all the way up to the feds level. So appreciate it. All right, moving on to our next discussion item. This
is going to be our Semi-Annual Report on Director Engagement. And I'm going to give it back to Mr. Kroll.
Would you please present this item to the Committee?
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. I'll try and keep my remarks brief on this, just frame the
conversation and why it's before you. You all set out at the beginning of the year to be more engaged and
present and visible within your communities. That was one of the three Board-specific goals that you all
came to consensus to during your Board Retreat on February 1.
And as a result of that ambition of the Board, the Board Office created a form by which Directors could track
their engagements. And this item was then placed on the agenda at the request of Secretary Nicholson,
who wanted to engage on this topic and see how the Board was doing on a regular basis. The reality here
is, usage of this tool has not been universally adopted yet by the Board.
Hopefully, we will continue to get engagement with it. I know we have a lot of very active Board members
who just haven't been able to submit the form on a regular basis. And so the data that we've provided is
only the data that we have received at this point. But it does show that those Board members who are
submitting information are very active.
We have over 110 or so events that the Board members have reported on. The Board Office did also go
back and fill in some of the blanks on events that were noticed on the two-week calendar, but we noticed
weren't included in the form results. And so if you take a look at what was submitted, you're going to see
what you might expect. Directors are engaging with a myriad of officials at the local, state, and federal level.
You all are getting out into your communities to engage with stakeholders from nonprofits to local county
commissioners. And you're engaging on a wide range of issues such as service levels, various different
infrastructure projects, legislation, et cetera. And one thing that I would appreciate some feedback on today
is just, what is valuable to the Board in sharing this information?
Do you all want to continue to see this as something that's included as part of an Executive Committee
meeting? Would it be more helpful instead to provide some kind of written update and eschew a formal
discussion at the committee level? And then, generally, I just want to end with a plug for those Directors
who haven't yet submitted their forms to please do so.
I think one great way that this tool can be leveraged by the Board is for you all in leadership, especially on
the Executive Committee, to take a 30,000-foot view of the engagements that the Board is having and see
where you might need to fill in the gaps in what constituencies might need a little bit more engagement, and
what types of topics are you having conversations on that you should continue, and what topics are you not
discussing enough with your constituencies.
And use it as a strategic tool to further improve the Board's engagement. And with that, Chair Bouquet, I'll
conclude my remarks. I'm happy to engage in any questions or comments on the matter.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. I do have some feedback. And there are some things
that I'm looking for. But I'll give it over to Secretary Nicholson first.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So I say this with a little bit of tongue in cheek, but actually not really. I think we
should put the list up on the Board website, right there alongside the maps and things like that. People want

to know what we're going to. And for people like me who have been negligent in turning in our forms since
February or March, it would be that much more of an incentive to get our documentation into you, if we
knew that the public could look at it and see whether we were doing our jobs or not.
A little Power BI chart, the way that we saw in the packet of number of engagements, would probably also
help show that off. Yeah, I think this is great stuff. I think we should make it as visible as possible to let
people know what we're up to, where in their community we're going to. Are we spending more time on one
half of the district versus another or whatever? So yeah, make it public, as visible as possible. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Secretary Nicholson. We can get into the nuance later on. But
yeah, I think it's not the worst idea on the planet, to make this public, to see and show how often all 15 of
us are interacting with folks. So yeah, that'll lead to my comments later. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. I'm on the wall of shame, since I haven't finished that or filled
out any of those forms. That being said, I did have some time to go back through my calendar and jot down
some notes in preparation of filling those out. But I was wondering, Jack, if we filled in these things and
they would be retroactive, if you would be updating those accordingly?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. Sorry, I don't want to speak on behalf of you, Mr. Kroll. But retroactively, I would
love to see. i think if you've had x amount of engagements, Director Catlin, I would love for those to be
included in the form. Because at the end of the year, when we look at this again, I think this is true
documentation of how much effort has been put into this Board of Directors. I would love to see it. But sorry,
Mr. Kroll, I don't want to cut in with you.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, I really appreciated the format. And it was really helpful for me to see what
other Directors are doing. So for what it's worth, that was nice. But I will try and get on that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you, Director. Any other comments or questions about the form? Yes,
Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. And thanks, Mr. Chair. I join Director Catlin in being on the wall
of shame. I wanted to just offer some feedback on the Director Activities link and the reporting form. So
there is a standing section in our regular Board meetings of Director Activities. So it does feel a little bit
redundant.
I know sometimes we hesitate to raise our hands because that comes at the end of the meeting and it's
late. Or, for me personally, I feel like I'm almost grandstanding if I went through what I did in the previous
month. So I just wanted to put that out there. If we're going to really rely on this documentation, we might
want to remove that section in our Board Meeting Agenda. So just put that for your consideration.
But on the form itself, when you click on it, it has seven required questions. And so each section must be
filled out before submission. That can get a bit rigid, especially if there's a routine update or a brief note or
you attended an event as an RT Director or on behalf of the agency. So I would just ask that we take a look
at those questions, maybe reduce them, and not make every section required to fill out.
Because some of it is not necessarily applicable. And/or a privacy consideration-- sometimes the items we
hear from constituents are sensitive, particularly when they relate to customer service issues or paratransit
access or their personal experiences. And so I would feel uncomfortable and I would think some other
Directors would feel the same in putting certain details on blast.

I also think that there's a section in the form about talking to other Directors about policy. I understand this
idea of transparency. But not every call or meeting is going to result in an action. And so I feel like my
interpretation of the form is that there's this expectation that we're detailing all of our communications, ones
that might not be relevant here. I also found in the form some redundancy when it asked what follow-up is
needed.
Because in a lot of cases like that, follow-up is already happening, right? We're emailing the Board Office,
the question is raised in Committee. We're having one-on-one conversations with the GM/CEO or a
Committee Chair or the Board Chair, or even customer service. And so I appreciate the intent behind the
form. It does support accountability.
But I just wanted to ask, I don't know if it's the Executive Committee or the Chair, just to take what I said
into consideration, and seeing if we can just reduce some barriers to that form and making it more practical
and flexible. Because it is, as noted, another task item for us to do. And we don't have staff. I know we're
all engaging in our communities.
It's a to-do item. So reducing barriers, I think, would be helpful in increasing participation. And so that
concludes my comments. And I hope that it's not taken out of turn. Because as I noted, I'm also on the wall
of shame. But anyway, thank you, Mr. Chair, for hearing my thoughts.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. Yeah, [? no, ?] well comments [? given ?] for
this. And I think there are a couple of things that we might have to look into. One, I do actually think that
this is a potential tool that I recommend whoever is going to be on this Executive Committee or whoever's
going to be taking the lead on this, is to continue this forward in the next year. I think that, one, making it as
easy as possible to fill out the form after the engagement, I think we can work on it a little bit. I think so far
the tool has been really helpful.
Going on to my overall comments. I know I've talked to some of the Board Office staff about this. The
original idea behind this form is really the documentation of the community engagement all 15 of us are
doing. Because all of us are doing an excellent job, I believe, of going out into our community, meeting with
different stakeholders. I think it's very interesting because it, one, serves the purpose of, should this be
shown on our Board website to show, hey, here's a graph of all the folks that we've been meeting with.
And two, the hope is by the end of the year, we can actually look and see where the gaps are and present
that and say, hey, Director Bouquet, you represent not only Douglas County, but you also have parts of
Arapahoe County. And we noticed that you're doing a good job of meeting with elected officials in Douglas
County. But we noticed that you could do a better job with meeting with the folks in Arapahoe County.
And again, if you haven't filled out the form and documented stakeholder engagement, please do so, even
if it was at the very beginning of this year. Because that information all kind of adds together. And we start
looking at it as not the small interactions we're having, but the big picture of engagement that all of us are
having and potentially filling in the gaps going into the future.
So I do hope, and I encourage us to continue to use this document, not only into '25, but into future years.
And I really think it's been very beneficial. Director Ruscha, did you have other comments?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, just one more. I haven't looked at the form right now. And then, there is an
emphasis on meetings, events, and organizations. But I also understood when we first discussed this at
the retreat, it included constituent engagements. And as we all know, we are a point of customer service.

I guess I'll just ask if you could expand upon that. Is that also what you expect in this form? That's how I
interpreted it. So I guess, for me, if I'm working with a constituent on a customer service issue, particularly
if it's complex or if it's paratransit related, that's something that might take several emails to solve.
Are those the kinds of things you also want us to report? I might have misinterpreted your instructions at
the beginning of the year. And admittedly, because I get a high volume of emails, it is part of why I haven't
been filling out this form. Because just responding to the emails or getting to the right staff or taking the
phone call is a task I'm happy to do. It's part of my job.
And then to that end, I would note some of us do have a higher volume of customer service concerns
because our constituents ride services more. So for example, I have higher bus ridership in my district than
yours, Mr. Chair, just because of geography and need. So I guess I just want to say, when we look at this
holistically, that moving forward, we just consider that some Directors might get more phone calls, either
because of the district they represent, the communities they represent, if they're a Chair of a committee, et
cetera.
I just want to just put that out there because just depending on individual Director circumstances, it might
look like, if we were just looking at raw numbers, some Directors are more engaged than others. But not all
we do can be put in a form or can be seen by the community. So I guess that was a question, and then just
a comment. So we joked about the wall of shame, but nobody really should be ashamed. We all are doing
the work. I think it's just about how do we show that we're doing the work. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Then, that concludes, then I really am done on this topic. Thanks, for the second time.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, I appreciate that, Director Ruscha. So working backwards, because I think there's
two topics that were raised. So the first one in regards to, I know we've heard the quote of "the wall of
shame." The way I actually interpret this is, again, this is a collective. This is showing where we are as
Directors. I don't see it as a competition at all.
And if we would show this information, obviously this is public information. Anyone can watch this meeting
later on on YouTube. Anyone can look at our documents at any time. But if we were to, for lack of a better
term, advertise this on the Board Website page, I more imagine it as, this is how many interactions the
group of us as a 15 have had with our different stakeholders.
Just to that first point of it, I've never viewed this as a competition. For some, it might be a competition. And
for some, they want to meet with x amount of with stakeholders. But overall, the hope with this is to
demonstrate, one, all 15 of us are meeting with multiple elected officials throughout our districts. And two,
it's to demonstrate who we might be missing. So my first years in for District G, I know I can do a lot better
of a job of meeting with our chambers of commerce.
I know that there are certain stakeholders that I need to meet with. And I think it's really figuring out where
the gaps are. And I want to be careful not answering in real time of what do we actually display. But for me,
I never imagined this as, one, a wall of shame, or imagined it as a tool compete with one another. It's more
of a collective to show what we're all doing.
Now, in the question of constituents, which you also brought up, Director Ruscha, when we originally had
this as a discussion at the beginning of the year, I think what I was imagining was those stakeholders that
are your chambers of commerce, that are your state legislators, that are your town council members, those

are the folks that I was kind of imagining as this as a documentation. I can see the benefit also of what
conversations you're having with individual constituents. But I would have to get back to that question and
that topic as a whole.
Because we do have documentation of customer concerns already. And does that fall into its own stream?
So I'd have to get back to you on that one. I'm not sure if staff, if you guys wanted to offer anything in
regards to individual constituents. But the way I imagine this form was really, what groups are you meeting
with? What elected officials are you meeting with? Mr. Kroll, did you want to offer anything?
JACK KROLL: Sure, I'll offer two quick things. One, as it relates to customer concerns and customer
relationships and handling base-level outreach from customers, the Board's operating guidelines
acknowledge a very real fact, which is that low-level customer concerns are best addressed by customer
care. The Board Office will ultimately get to the same answer as what customer care will provide that
individual, but it will simply take us longer due to the fact that we are a smaller operation with many other
obligations to attend to.
And then to follow up on your subsequent point there, Chair Bouquet, I think what constitutes a constituent
engagement worthy of being logged in this form, I think, is up to the person submitting it. If you want to use
it as a tool to track those things, great. If not, it was never really intended to be that granular because of the
very real reality of the volume of those individual constituent engagements that may arise during the course
of a director's term.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Director Bouquet, Chairman Bouquet. My question is on slide number
6, Mr. Kroll, what is being measured there? It doesn't really say. Is it the questions that we have for staff or
the inquiries that require staff time? How many and then how many hours? I'm a little questioning what's
being measured.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler, is this in regards to the Director Requests?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes, on that slide 6, page 111 of the packet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Let's hold that question. So we're still on Director Engagement.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Oh, sorry. Sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, I appreciate it.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: [INAUDIBLE]

JULIEN BOUQUET: We'll definitely get back to it though. So appreciate the question though. On Director
Engagement, Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I was just going to say that I think one of the things that would really help with this
process is that almost everything that I engage with is in my calendar. And so one thing where I think staff
could be extraordinarily helpful would be in just pulling Directors' calendars for the relevant period and
sending it to them as a spreadsheet, basically.

Because then it's like here, here's all of your events. Tell us which ones are direct external things. And then
fill in a spreadsheet. At least for me, that's faster, significantly so, than filling in a form 35 times. And then
just emailing it back to staff, that would be my preferred way. And I know that you guys have the magic
wizardry to pull an Outlook calendar into an Excel spreadsheet. So I think that would be the best way to get
the kind of annotated data that you're looking for.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Noted. Thank you. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I was going to say, perhaps you would be open or we could consider having a monthly
report instead of after every single engagement? So I don't need staff to [? coordinate ?] my calendar and
give them more work. I can do that myself. But I actually think this would be easier for me if I were doing
this on a monthly basis. Because then, for example, I flagged certain emails and I do have things on my
calendar. And then I could fill it out that way.
And then maybe if we had it like in Excel format on our shared drive, that might offer just some flexibility in
the comments and such. But for those who want to fill out a form right then on a more frequent basis, maybe
that works for them. But I would like to have an option of, can I just submit a report and tell me what you
need to know.
Tell me what you need in the report. And then I would submit it. But I'd rather do it once or twice a month.
Really, I'd prefer once so I can just sit down and get it done. I think it would also just be more efficient to
me, actually, in terms of time management. For your consideration.
JULIEN BOUQUET: These are perfect. No, both feedback items offered by you and then Secretary
Nicholson are noted. And I just got them down. I believe staff have also noted it. So awesome, guys. Well,
thank you all for your discussion on this. I'm going to keep us moving. And then for our next discussion item
and our final one, this is going to be the Semi-Annual Report on Director Requests. And I'll give this over
to Mr. Kroll again.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. Again, Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. And
I'll move through a few slides here very quickly to keep us on track and not elongate this meeting too much
further. But again, similar to the last item, this is a semi-annual update based off of another type of activity,
which is the tracked number of requests for response or advocating on behalf of a constituent for a response
that the Board Office receives from Board members and then coordinates with staff to fulfill.
So just a year-by-year breakdown of the growth in this particular component of the Board Office's
responsibilities, as well as the shared responsibility across the agency. I will say, in a prior life, I served on
another elected board. And the system for responding to requests at RTD is far and away more efficient,
more comprehensive, and is really something that, having just gotten back from the APTA TBA/TBM
seminar, I think would be the envy of many other transit agency boards across the country.
And while the Board Office serves as a facilitator of these requests, a great deal of credit is due to GM and
CEO Johnson's team and staff across the agency who really do the bulk of the work to get information back
to the Board in a timely and accurate and comprehensive manner. That being said, requests for information
are growing. We were actually on pace to grow even faster during the last update we provided to you all in
February of this year.
However, the pace of requests has decreased. I think there's a few thoughts I have on that. But the main
primary reason, I think, for that is that there has been a tremendous training and insight program put on,

orientation and training program coordinated by the Board Office. And really the heavy lifting again from
GM and CEO Johnson and her team to get new Board members up to speed on a range of issues.
I'd be remiss if I didn't remind you all of the Civil Rights Training again this afternoon. That's your penultimate
one. But I think because of the comprehensive nature of those trainings that are following a Boardprescribed path, the amount of inquiries has slackened a bit. I think there's also a tendency for the Board
to be very eager to get questions answered right after new members are sworn in. And over time, Directors
are able to acquire additional information just through the course of their service on the Board.
And so, while we are on pace to see a decrease in the number of staff hours and the number of total
requests submitted by Directors relative to last year, I want to point out still that we're very much up, relative
to 2022 and 2023, with respect to those inquiries. One other interesting thing to note is the amount of time
per request is also ticking up a little bit here.
These are just the totals by Director for 2024. You can see the staff hour totals in blue. And the red indicates
the total number of requests. Then, you can see that data again broken out by leadership team for 2024.
We'll get to the 2025 data here soon. But we wanted to provide this context because you can see that the
requests that the Directors are submitting are reaching every corner of this agency.
One thing that I'm obligated to point out here is that we don't track all of the requests that come in. Some
don't make it to the Board Office. Some are just handled expeditiously enough that they don't warrant
tracking. But one category that we're not tracking due to attorney-client privilege is the amount of
engagement that necessarily occurs with General Counsel's Office. For obvious reasons, we wouldn't want
to necessarily capture the nature of that outside of a privileged environment.
You can see here the total number of requests and request hours by Director. So I think this was the page
that you had a question about, Director Chandler. So this is just tracking total number of requests tracked
by the Board Office and the corresponding amount of hours staff have reported back to the Board Office
for requests from various Directors. And then again, this slide here shows how those requests on the
preceding slide are distributed across various departments at the agency, departments and divisions, I
should say.
I think the purpose of looking at this is to remind the Board of the collective impact the Board can have on
requests for information. And again, this process is phenomenally efficient. It is very fair. We don't prioritize
requests at all based off of content. It's content neutral. But I think the spirit of this being added to the Board
Operating Guidelines, I should say, is an endeavor to have the Board just be aware of its collective input.
One thing that I think is really great about access to information is that it's there. It upholds the principles of
transparency. One thing that I'm obliged to caution the Board against, though, is using that in a disciplined
and focused manner-- yes, you can get as much information as one can possibly get about RTD and how
it operates. I think the real question is, how are you going to use that information?
And how are you going to leverage that information in pursuit of a policy, objective, or governance role at
the agency? And to encourage Directors to use this towards those policy ends and towards your governing
objectives, as opposed to simply addressing Director curiosities or interests-- I think it's important to stay
focused, which this aligns, then, again with your Board Work Plans, your Committee Work Plans.
And there was a recent change to the Board Operating Guidelines to remind Board members of that, which
is to say that really requests that come in-- while, of course, all requests will be honored and pursued

diligently without any interpretation as to the end goal-- I think it behooves the Board and Board members
to remain focused on your key policy objectives and to use your requests for information and drain on staff
and agency resources in direct pursuit of those goals.
And that is why the Executive Committee of yesteryear asked for these reports to come forward. It was a
way of reminding folks, yes, the information is available. You can go get it. But let's make sure we
collectively, as a Board, have a plan for what we're attempting to achieve. And with that, I will conclude my
remarks. I'm happy to engage in any questions or conversations on this.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, for that presentation. And thank you, Staff, for getting
the presentation ready, very helpful. Director Ruscha, you are our first speaker.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I just want to express concern about language that's been used, not just
today, but actually since I've been on the Board. But specifically that Directors are a drain for asking
questions or raising issues that might not align perfectly with a particular staff agenda or might not be on a
calendar. I don't think that language is appropriate. We are elected to serve the public and provide oversight
and ensure transparency.
And asking questions and seeking clarity is part of our duty. It's not a drain. If we need more Board Office
staff, we can hire more Board Office staff. If there is something in the process whereby answers to questions
are not being addressed efficiently, then we can look at a process. But asking or requesting that people talk
less, I don't think is conducive to a productive conversation as it relates to our role.
And I would just ask that when it comes to communication and time, that there's mutual respect on that. I
also just wanted to flag, because I've put in a request for the Board Office this year. And I flagged them in
my Outlook for follow-up. And I'm looking at it right now. And I have one that is 78 days old. And I've followed
up three times.
I have at least three that I can just see, looking at the top of my box, that are related to Board Actions. And
they haven't been answered. That's not including AR requests that did not get answered in time for a vote.
So I am also concerned about the timeline or time frame in which we are getting responses to some of our
inquiries.
I don't know if that's something staff wants to address right now. Or we can follow up later. But it is a concern
of mine. Because the Board Office is supposed to be a resource. And that also includes ensuring that we
have access to information that we need so that we can make informed votes or discuss or create policy
as needed. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha, for your comments. Perfect. I've made note
of them. Yes, Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. I think in response to the packet and to the item, I think
we can all be more disciplined in what we ask of staff. And no doubt that applies to me as well. I will agree
with Director Ruscha in the sense that sometimes you don't know what should be an agenda item, what
needs to be a focus of Board attention, until you've asked about it. And so sometimes the first time you ask
about something or even the second time, it's before it is an agenda item, before it is on the work plan.
But it's the seed and the question that turns into, oh, maybe we should get this added. Maybe we should
work on this, maybe we should. And balancing the difference between that and, I'm just going to ask about
whatever pops into my head today, is hard. And obviously it's a responsibility of every Director, especially

those of us who have things pop into their head a lot like I do. And so I think that there definitely is a
responsibility to ensure we're not wasting the agency's time.
But there's also a responsibility to be asking the questions that would go unasked and to be trying to address
things that might otherwise go completely unaddressed, that without asking those sorts of questions,
without looking into things and picking up the rug and so to speak, you would never know, oh, hey, there's
a beetle infestation here. We should probably spend three months working on this-- metaphorically
speaking. So I think it's an important balance. And it's an ongoing conversation. And you have my
commitment to work with staff to ensure that that is balanced in a healthy way.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you for your comments. I'm just going to offer this as my comments.
And then I'll call on you, Mr. Kroll. I think at no point I believe that staff are discouraging Director requests
or Director inquiries. I think there's a couple questions we need to ask ourselves as Directors when we're
making our requests.
And the main one I'd advocate for is, one, what is this potentially going to be leading to? What is our policy
discussion? What is this? Is this going to help with our work plan or is this going to help with a potential
policy? Second, is this unique to just me as a Director? Or have I actually built a coalition of Directors?
Have I asked other Directors in figuring out, is this something that we should be looking into as a Committee
or as a full Board?
So building that consensus from other Directors, I would highly recommend. And then finally, the biggest
one is, as it's been stated, our bosses, the people who got us in this seat is the public. We're an elected
office. And a big question we should be asking ourselves is in regards to, will this inquiry help my policymaking decisions and help my constituency and the broad constituency of the district itself?
So again, always, always good to be curious, always good to be going forward with inquiries that I do truly
believe lead to policy inquiries that have been built that have multiple Directors interested in, and then finally
inquiries that benefit our constituents. But I'm just one individual Director on those comments. And I'm not
a staff member. So I'll go to Mr. Kroll with any comments that he might have to offer.
JACK KROLL: Yes, I'll just quickly state, Director Ruscha's feedback is well taken. And one piece of
information we will add to the next time we report on this, we already track this information, but it's the
number of days elapsed from the time of request is logged to the time of request is closed. And that can be
really helpful to show, I think, the Board, the quick turnaround time that is present in, I think, a vast majority
of these requests.
The second thing to state to Secretary Nicholson is, with respect to-- and I think it combines that collective
notion that Chair Bouquet alluded to of-- what is the Board interested in picking up the rug and looking
underneath on, every year this body approves its annual audit plan. And I think the annual audit plan is the
time and place, as you all discuss that, to have very engaged conversations about what are the issues the
Board wants to look into collectively.
Certainly, management recommendations feed into a lot of that. And those should be taken very seriously.
But I think there is an existing vehicle on some of these larger, bigger inquiries to use the audit function
through the Audit Committee to make those larger inquiries a reality.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Any further questions, comments, discussion on this? Yes,
Director Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. I just wanted just to note for my newer colleagues that where you can, it can
be helpful to use your one-on-one time with our General Manager, if you're scheduling that. I know I find it
really helpful. And that has decreased my inquiries to the Board Office. Because more often than not, our
General Manager will be apprised. Or it is going to go to a senior staff anyway.
So just a thought. It's your calendar. You do what you want on your agenda with that time with her. But I
know that taking some of that to her, because it will eventually come to her desk, has improved efficiency
on my end. Thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Good piece of advice, Director Ruscha. And come with a list of items so that you have
a very thoughtful discussion-JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: --at once. Excellent. I'm going to keep us moving. Thank you all for the discussion.
Really great discussion. Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for the presentation on Director Requests. All right, moving
on, other matters-- are there any other matters at this time to discuss? Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: I'm looking at the agenda. I just wanted to give you at least a heads up. I'm not quite
sure how this is all going to turn out. But I was considering a potential amendment to the short-term
performance measures, to let you know, heads up, short-term goals. Well, I'll leave it at that. There's a
possible amendment I might also offer on Access-on-Demand program modifications. And it's not
necessarily a change that we would be voting on at this coming meeting.
But it just seems to me these two programs, Access-on-Demand and Access-a-Ride are becoming, at least
in my mind, so complicated and they're so similar that I think it would be great in the next couple of months,
if we could be asking the Operations Committee and our staff to start thinking about merging the two
programs and how might we do that. So I just wanted to give you a heads-up on that. So more information
to come, but thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Treasurer Benker, for the heads-up on that. I guess my only
request would be-- I guess, two things is, one, in regards to amendments to the former, making sure said
amendments are relevant to the actual discussion of the short-term goals themselves, compared to
potentially something that might fall out of that. And then a second one, of course, is submitting that
language to our Board Office of potential amendments.
KAREN BENKER: I will. I appreciate that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Treasurer. Mr. Kroll, yes.
JACK KROLL: Could I also recommend to Director Benker, that if you are able to connect with GM and
CEO Johnson and General Counsel Snyder, especially as it relates to anything with respect to the shortterm goals.
KAREN BENKER: Yes, absolutely. In fact, I've been meaning to do this sooner. This morning, I actually
made some changes again. And so I hope to do that later today. I will, I promise. Along to the Chair of our
Performance Committee, I need to reach out to Director Guzman and have a conversation with him to alert
him if I decide to go forward.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Yes, thank you, Mr. Kroll, for that reminder. But yes, all three individuals
that were mentioned, get their thoughts and opinions. Any other matters at this time for this Committee?
OK, seeing none. As a reminder, the Board does not hold any meetings during the month of August. So
our next meeting is scheduled for Thursday, September 25, at 11:15 AM. And that meeting will be slated
to review the Board Office budget and take an initial look at our 2026 Legislative Program, which will detail
our legislative priorities for next year.
Most importantly, we are set to hold an executive session with our Board Office Executive Manager, Jack
Kroll, to discuss his performance over the last evaluation period. As such, I encourage all members of the
Board to attend our September meeting and to join us for those very important conversations. I'll now
entertain a motion to adjourn.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Nicholson is the mover. And a second from Whitmore. All right, we're adjourned as of
12:54. Everyone have a lovely Thursday.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks, everybody.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, guys.

