2021-11-11
Executive Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning, everyone. I would like to call the Executive Committee to
order. It is Veterans Day, 11/11/2021 and it is 11:30 AM. And I would like to take a moment to honor our
veterans for their service to our country.
Today is the Executive Committee. We will be looking at the agenda for the Board meeting. Do I have a-God, all of a sudden I forgot the words. Is there someone to move forward the agenda for the Board
meeting?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair? Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, ma'am.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hi, Barbara McManus. So we have two action items and we can't move the-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We can't move the Board agenda forward until we've voted on those two items to
add to it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And I am looking at the unanimous consent. And Ms. McManus, if you
can help me with the other two pieces, I'd appreciate that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, one second. So we have two recommended actions. Would you like me to
read the first one for you to get a first and second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 2022 redistricting criteria and procedures. For the Board of Directors to adopt the
2022 redistricting criteria and procedures in accordance with the following discussion, as recommended
by Chair Rivera-Malpiede and Directors Broom and Sloan.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I have Secretary Buzek as the movement.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And the second from First Vice-Chair Guissinger. Thank you. Is there any
discussion on this recommended action? Seeing none.
Is there any noes to this recommended action? Hearing none, it is moved forward.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Would you like me to read the second one?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please do. Please do.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Approval of the Board expense reductions from 2022 for the Board to
adopt the attached resolution number blank series of 2021 concerning the reduction of Directors expense
budget lines in the fiscal year 2022 to offset revenue shortfalls due to COVID-19 impacts. Do I have a
movement? Anybody want to move this forward?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek. I'll make that motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I'll second it. For discussion, I have a couple of questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, me too.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Pardon me? Secretary Buzek, are you moving this forward or are you asking a
question?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, so moved, Madam Chair. So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. We have a movement of Secretary Buzek, and a second of First
Vice-Chair Guissinger. Any conversation or discussion or questions on this?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You want to go first, Vince?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, sure. Just a quick couple of quick questions. So my understanding is that this
eliminates our travel expense and out-of-state travel.
And I know things are kind of in flux right now, but wasn't there just an in-person big APTA Convention?
And what are things looking like in 2022? Are these organizations scheduling in-person events?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think that this is a really great question. We did have one Board member
attend APTA. None of our staff attended APTA. And I can have the General Manager talk about what
she's looking at in terms of the staff. And I-- why don't you go ahead, General Manager, and give us a
kind of your point of view in anything that you know about APTA coming up?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to opine. So
recognizing when I came into the organization that the budget had been approved for fiscal year 2021
and the-- excuse me-- the travel had been eliminated as a cost reduction effort.
Recognizing that I need to model the behavior I'd like to see. And also taking into consideration the Delta
variant and the myriad of cases that have been attributed to that variant, made the decision to stand up
with eliminating travel. As we go forward, recognizing that APTA basically had canceled many of their inperson conferences. The APTA Expo, which is a triennial event whereby you have vendors showcasing
equipment and materials, this had been basically prolonged for a period of time.
The conference was supposed to be held in Anaheim, California-- in Orange County, California,
specifically. And it was moved to Orlando because they had lesser restrictions as it related to holding
events of that magnitude. There were several-- while there wasn't at the conference, there were several
entities that did not attend. There were transit agencies in California that didn't attend as well.
As we go through this, APTA is looking at this as well to ensure that people are comfortable. Recognizing
that I was invited to participate on a myriad of different panels and I voiced my hesitancy in participating,
accommodations were made. We are staying flexible and agile as we look at what the direction is going
forward.
And at this juncture, it's unknown what may be. I have committed that we are involved with WTS, APTA,
come to a myriad of different industry-based associations. But recognizing what we do not know, we have
held some moneys in abeyance that could be shifted relative to supporting activities as relates to training
and development as well as engaging with associations.
So we're going to look at that, as I shared just the other night. I'm sending out communique as relates to
what's happening here at RTD, recognizing that we have outbreak sites as deemed by the CPDHE. So all
of this is very fluid at this time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And I would just share that I also was asked to sit on a panel at
APTA and did not go. We did have one Board member attend. But it does feel very fluid still. And I'm not
quite sure where we're going to be next year.
VINCE BUZEK: So thanks for that response.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just-VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry, go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hi. So based on some of the conversations we have had in the past surrounding
this subject, we did put in the Board action that if favorable economic factors and public health conditions
allow, the Board may choose to reinstate funding by way of the budget adjustment in 2022 to allow

Directors to travel to out-of-state, transit related conferences. So we tried to align that with what the
agency was doing and the comments that the General Manager just made.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I saw that and I appreciate that. So for this year, 2021, I thought last year, we
passed a resolution suspending out-of-state travel for this year. Did we not? Or am I wrong?
BARBARA MCMANUS: For-- yes, for 2021.
VINCE BUZEK: So you said-- so you said you had a Board member attend an out-of-state event. How did
that happen then?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The-BARBARA MCMANUS: So-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So each of the Directors still had their local budgets. And so if the Director that
attended wanted to use his local budget and not put in any other expenses, then he was allowed to do
that, staying within guidelines.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, no, that's fine. I just was curious. OK, that's all I had. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK? First Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That got to some of my questions. It reduces by $1,000, the amount allocated to
each local expense budget. Is that where we were this year, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So the same would apply, if somebody wanted to go, they could use their local
expense budget or ask the Board for approval or something? Is that-- I guess that would be an
Amendment to the budget to have someone go. Is that right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So in that scenario, if someone were invited and the Chair and/or the Executive
Committee had discussion and decided that that's how they wanted to move forward, we would use the
Chair's Discretionary Fund as needed, depending on what the cost of that is. And we have that still in
place as a backdrop. It was reduced, but we still have dollars in that account.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. How big is the discretionary fund?
BARBARA MCMANUS: $10,000.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I want you all to know, I didn't use any of it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, right.

VINCE BUZEK: That's not what I heard.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You started buying Savannah's birthday presents today.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We had one trip in February of 2020 and that was it. So it's not been utilized
whatsoever.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, with that discussion, any other questions or comments? Before we go
to the vote, I'd like to welcome Director Catlin and Second Vice-Chair Cook. Welcome. OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Sloan, I think.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't see Director-- oh, there you are. Director Sloan, welcome. OK, are
there any-MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are there any no votes on this resolution? Hearing none, it is adopted into
the Board agenda, Ms. McManus. All right, so now I go back and approve the Board agenda, correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So I'd like to ask for approval of the Board agenda for November.
Do I have a movement?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The second?
SHELLEY COOK: Second. Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any no votes? Hearing none, the agenda is adopted. Thank
you, ladies and gentlemen. Sorry, that was a little cumbersome. OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, sir?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes?
VINCE BUZEK: I had my hand raised.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, please.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm not a no vote, but I was wanting to discuss the agenda. And I just had a question, I
guess. There seem to be an awful lot of retirees. Is that-LYNN GUISSINGER: I noticed that.
VINCE BUZEK: Have we been like holding them off or what's the deal?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. During COVID where a lot of folks retired through the year, the end of last
year as well, we decided that through the year we would be sending the plaques to each of the retirees.
And then at the last Board meeting of the year, that we would recognize all of them at the same time. So
that is why the list is extensive.
VINCE BUZEK: That's great. Thanks so much. And I'm very glad not to see Mrs Johnson's name on that
list.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Or anyone else present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh my goodness. All right. Are there any other agenda items to come
forward to the Executive Committee?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are you asking for other matters or is that a different-- yeah?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. Other matters.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I had a question. I just came across the FTA Sustainability Challenge and
that we had registered for it. And it said that they offer technical assistance. And I just thought I'd see if
you could give us some sort of explanation of what we get for that.
Are we in the process of drafting a plan? What's going on with that? I was very happy to see that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Recognizing we have a strategic plan, as I go back to when we look at our
community value and it ties in to our sustainability efforts, and then more so as we look at what we can do
to help alter behavior as it relates to doing one's part to reduce carbon footprint. We collectively are
looking at this through the lens of what we're doing to be a good steward in reference to sustaining the
environment. And so as we look to Spare the Air and fair days and things of the like, this will be
incorporated in.

At this juncture, we have yet to flesh out all the specifics, as I've shared in disparate conversations with
you, this is something that we're working on in earnest. And so as relates to FTA trying to garner that
support collectively, it's being part of a greater faction as we go forward to develop sustainability plans
just as a whole. Since I do have my colleague, Mr. Van Meter here, he and I had talked about this, I
remember, on our bus ride to Boulder. Is there anything that you would like to add to what I said, sir?
BILL VAN METER: I think that was a good recap. And FTA had indicated that they're going to announce
some more detail in alignment with Earth Day next year in terms of what the challenge looks like. And so
they're thinking about it as a longer term commitment and goal towards achieving the President's and
FTA's climate change actions.
So we're staying tuned with them and plugged in by having joined. Yeah, plugged in. Yeah, unintentional
pun there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. I think that's great. So just to make sure I understand, they kind of
haven't defined what they're expecting out of this challenge at this point?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Exactly. I was trying not to say that. But as I said, we're remaining flexible and agile.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry to be so clear. Well, I was glad to see our name on there. I think that's great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Yes, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Two things, if OK. One is I recall that we are required to provide a follow-up
report, a progress report to the State Auditor as a result of our 2020 audit. Is that forthcoming? Are you
going to share that with us? Was that part of your report at the Board meeting, Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, if I may, Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Second Vice-Chair Cook, as you recall when I provided an update at the
Finance and Audit Committee about where we are with the state audit report, I committed to keeping you
all apprised. We just received communique from the Office of the State Auditor in reference to the
timeline which I do recall I outlined. They're going to send some communique to us in reference to
wanting to know what the status is of where we are on December 1. Hence that's why I shared with you
where we were collectively in that presentation.
That's the information we will be sharing with them. In January or February time frame, that's when we're
supposed to submit the responses, which basically are structured in such a way where we're limited to
certain characters stating where we are and what we have done. And so that information will be made
available to you all. And I will transmit a copy of what it is that we do submit.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: You're quite welcome.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, appreciate it. And the second thing. Barbara McManus and I were talking this
morning about fleshing out the small committee. And one piece of it, just to make people aware, see if
there's any discussion or thought about it, is now that we've gone to the Executive Committee, making the
selections for people who then are part of the subcommittees, the standing committees.
Now recall that brings the number working on that to more than two, so it's subject to open meetings, I
understand. And it means that those discussions, the decision-making and even perhaps the discussions
about it need to be in public, in a public and noticed meeting. And so think about that in terms of how we
end up with the members in a committee.
It may be that because we're asking people to indicate the committees they want to be involved in, maybe
this is not going to be a problem. So we could try it, see how people map themselves into one or two
committees, and see how the numbers work out. Is that-- what do you all think? I just wanted to get the
Executive Committee or other people's thoughts about that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Second Vice-Chair Cook, I've been thinking a lot about this as well. And
I'm thinking that because there will be a new Executive Committee next year, that would probably be the
first line of business that they take up in terms of how they're going to move forward with the committee-that whole committee piece of it. That's kind of what I'm thinking at this point because that new leadership
group would be in charge of moving it forward for the first time.
And so it would be up to them to determine how they're going to kind of configure this. That's kind of
where I'm at anyone. Anyone else have any comments?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please?
VINCE BUZEK: Right. So my understanding in the past is that the Chair kind of made the selections.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Correct.
VINCE BUZEK: But it was based upon members of the Board submitting to the Chair their preferences.
And I think we probably still want to do the same process, right? You want to see who wants to be where.
And there may be quite a bit of self-selection with regard to that, that might make things easier.
And then I think the Executive Committee, yeah, we have to have these discussions in open. And I think
that's-- we're going to have to feel our way through that. But I think it's going to be fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. OK, Director Cook, anything else? Or does that give you some?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Yeah, I think that's-- as long as-- if other members and Board members
listening, I wouldn't want to change it without going back to the Board because the Board pretty much

agreed upon that piece of things as well as the others. But I agree it. I think it'll be fine. Yeah, so anyway,
thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Sloan?
BILL VAN METER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. And I am here based on your advice that this is the
appropriate way to bring it up. And that is in light of our new strategic plan and the new Committee
structure, I would suggest Board retreat as soon as possible, although I understand the discussion before
about our uncertain status. But before we really get underway in the new year, I believe a retreat would
be important, particularly to get a better collective understanding of the Board's role and the contributions
to success of the agency that the Board can make under the new strategic plan.
And it's particularly important with the new Committee structure. And that said, I don't want to discount the
idea of celebrating the successes of the agency before we get back down to the Board's role. And we
could-- I know everybody will have ideas about that.
But there are gaps. And I think the retreat could do some things as minor as how to get something on the
agenda, which seems to be a constant stress for people, and up to and including exploring the distinction
between policy and implementation of the strategic plan. Because the Board will definitely have a role in
making sure that the community and the Board itself is aware of what we're supposed to be doing. So that
is my suggestion, a retreat as soon as possible.
And while I have the floor, one more item. I was really heartened to learn about RTD's taking up the
challenge for our climate change plan. And I understand that it's vague right now, but it's not vague that
we're in there.
And I think we should publicize that. I think it would be something that the community would like to hear
about and should know about. So I would encourage a communique about our acceptance of the
challenge. That's all. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I do want to talk a little bit-- before I do that, let's go to First ViceChair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just sort of am seconding what Marjorie said. I think that a retreat-- that's what we
do every year. We moved it last year with the strategic plan. But especially since we've been all meeting
by Zoom, and there are questions coming up, so many changes, I think that would be a really great thing
to do in person and spend some time focusing on our role with the agency and all of that. And yeah, I
agree, in terms of the sustainability.
The other thing I was going to-- and maybe this is coming out. Maybe the Communications Department is
doing it, but I-- well, actually I guess it wouldn't be until after the Board meeting next week. But telling the
world that we've bought 17 electric vehicles, I also think is a great thing to do. And maybe, again, maybe
that's in action after our meeting next week. That's it.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I concur with Director Sloan's input and Director Guissinger's
input. We do these retreats and have done them in the past, and we address big strategic plans and all
kinds of things that are our big ticket things. It'd be nice to have a retreat where we talk about other things
as well.
When we met in person, you know, I worked with a council member in Broomfield that said the most
important meeting is the meeting before the meeting and the meeting after the meeting. So we miss all of
that. So just to get together and be able to talk about some of these things that Director Sloan brought up
and some other maybe less important items just to get us in the same room, I think would be a good
thing. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice-Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, quickly, I agree with the comments by Director Sloan, Guissinger, and Buzek.
And would add too, given-- understanding, too, the burden that our Board Office has currently, that the
Board members or members of the Executive Committee could help to plan with that is one thought, that
they could take some of the load off. And also, in that way, engage more on what's on the agenda for that
meeting. So thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you all for the dialogue as it relates to the sustainability
aspects and the communication around it. I just wanted to qualify for all of you, of course, that's intended.
But we have to ensure that when we're communicating we have a plan in place.
So I just want to manage everybody's expectations, recognizing a question that we would get. Once you
publicize, OK, what are the parameters within the FTA challenge? And at this juncture, we have yet to
know that. Additionally, as relates to the anticipated contract with New Flyer, we have to wait until there's
a notice to proceed.
And so there's a timing, so I just don't want you all to think when we leave this meeting that you're going
to see some communique that's disseminated because most likely that will be in a couple of weeks as we
go forward. So just wanted to ensure that we're all aligned on the page because some of it's very
noteworthy, but quite nasty. When you disseminate information, you get a myriad of questions and we
can't answer those questions at this time. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager. It is exciting information that we know. But I
agree, we need to have the particulars before we disseminate information to the community. I, too, think
that the retreat is a great idea. And Ms. McManus, last year when we did do two retreats during COVID, I
know that we used the Ellie Caulkins Opera House as a place so we could spread out.

And I'm wondering if that might not be apropos for planning for next year. But maybe what we do is some
kind of a reception for the Board before, and then the Senior Leadership Team and the Board in March.
Traditionally, the Board meets in February and then the Board and the SL Team meets in March. And
maybe we could do something in addition for people to get to know each other and just kind of chat.
I agree with the General Manager. I think that we are still in such a crucial fluid environment with the
virus. And we need to be very, very cautious about that. But if there's some way to do it, I think it would be
absolutely great to do it.
Unfortunately, when new Board members came on in 2021, we've not been able to bond like we have in
the years past when we were meeting together on a regular basis. So I understand completely the need
to be able to do that. If we can figure out a way to do it safely for everybody, I think that would be great.
Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And maybe this is for General Manager CEO Johnson, but
we have probably a report coming out from Reuben Brown, regarding our internal audit, that is likely to
result in some changes. And that may be a good topic or something good that we could address if we
were to meet in February or even sooner.
I'm just really kind of chomping at the bit to get some of that implemented and going. And I just don't know
what your thoughts are about that, Debra. I'm wondering where we are right now.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. If you could just expound a little bit because
I'm not certain what I'm being asked.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I believe that there will be some recommendations from this study that talk about
restructuring and reorganizing audit. And that also relates to the Audit Committee that will be part of-- as
we move forward on the Board, there's the Audit Committee and then there's the actual function of the
Internal Audit Department and the organization. And I'm just interested in having a discussion as soon as
that report comes out. And that might be appropriate in the retreat as well, just to have that as part of the
agenda. I'm hoping it's not too late.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. I would surmise that there would be information forthcoming in advance of
that. Quite naturally, as you're aware, there's been a lot of different work that's been done in recognizing
where we are. And I don't want to speak outside of school because I don't know what they're going to
recommend.
But quite naturally when you look at the framework and things that have been done, as I shared in a
public forum with you all, that there's different models that are being put forward. So recognizing that we
should be agile because it could be something totally different of what this Board is accustomed to
because we were deviating by the-- we were deviating from the framework. So the committee could be
totally different in that regard and in the sense that potentially, it may not be composed of Board
members.

It could be some external entity of which you all have auspices over. It could be, we could look at
outsourcing of the function for internal audit so we can ensure we have subject matter expertise as it
relates to information technology, as it relates to rest and a myriad of different things. As you know, these
are things that have been discussed.
I don't know what the recommendations are. But I would surmise that we need to be made apprised of
what the path forward is sooner rather than later. But yes, there could be a potential to have greater
conversations around that if that's the desire of this collective body during the course of a retreat as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, I just-- I don't know what the recommendations are going to be. I can
speculate, but that's all it is. But I suspect that it will probably be a pretty large departure from what we
have been doing lately. And I would add, hopefully. So I just think that it will make a difference and that
this Board really needs to be apprised of that because in my mind it's so critical.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I agree, totally. And you and I have talked about that quite naturally. Right?
PEGGY CATLIN: Not lately. I've kind of been out of pocket. But anyway-DEBRA JOHNSON: I know, but I-PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. I just appreciate elevating it in the discussion.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right, and recognizing-- and I know you weren't available to attend, but the Vice
Chair of Finance and Administration Audit, when we had the conversation that we have-- for everybody's
edification, there's recurring meetings with the Chair and the Vice Chair of Finance Administration and
Audit to keep apprised of where we are with the work that's being done by the consultant.
PEGGY CATLIN: And just to let you know, Eric Davidson and I do have a Zoom meeting set up this
afternoon to really flesh a lot of that out. So unfortunately, I wasn't available. But yeah, I just wanted to
bring it up that I think it's an important discussion to have. So sorry to keep this meeting longer than it
needed to be. But-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, that's fine. We do have one more discussion item though. And that is
the whole piece around public comment and participation in committee meetings for 2022. And I just
wanted to bring that forward as a discussion item. Does anybody have any thoughts on that or
comments?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. At this point, did we move forward saying we would have public
comment? Can you remind me? Are you concerned?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We did. No, we did. And Ms. McManus, you can kind of give us the deal.
But it seems to me that that was one of the components in the survey that the Board brought forward was
that they did want public comment at committee meetings, correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And then how do you see that happening? Does anybody have any
comments or questions about that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Would it just be like we do at the Board meetings where it's three minutes per
person, you sign up or whatever we do with that? I was sort of assuming that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, and my other question was, does it have to pertain just to what's being
discussed at the committee level? Because at the Board level, then you can bring whatever. But are we
going to say, you can sign up, but it has to be-- it's almost like a public hearing on, but we're going to be
talking about this. And so if you have a comment or a question about this, then you can sign up to talk for
three minutes. Am I correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So that's how the discussion went previously. But that decision needs to be made
by this body as we move forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is it-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we make this decision? I mean, it seemed like there was a lot of interest on the
wording in this issue.
SHELLEY COOK: I think there was a final conclusion on it too. I don't mean to butt in there, sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, please, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What was the final conclusion?
SHELLEY COOK: Well, it was-- there's quite a bit of discussion about whether it could include-- I think it
was focused on the actions of the committee, either in the current meeting or in the prior month's meeting.
If you remember, there was quite a bit of discussion about that. And I think we ultimately determined, at
least to start out with, the more liberal allowing discussion of items that we either had before us or had
acted on in the last meeting. You know, anybody's welcome to correct me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, but it seems to me that whatever we determine needs to be the
determination. I don't think we can say we're going to start here and then we're going to do this because I
think that might be really, really confusing. But it was, if my recollection is correct, it was pertaining to
committee business, either past or present. Am I correct?

SHELLEY COOK: We should check the minutes. Yes, or the transcription.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I see people shaking heads.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [INAUDIBLE]
VINCE BUZEK: That's what I recall.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm happy to read-- I have the recommended action
that was approved on this. I'm happy to read that to you, what the Board approved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: So with respect to public comment, you all decided that public commentary germane
to the topics listed at the published meeting-- in the published meeting agenda for the current and
immediately preceding month will be taken at the beginning of each committee meeting. And that the
Board Office will establish a process to allow individuals to submit comments in advance. And that any
comments received will be incorporated into the public record of the appropriate meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That was it. All right, thank you. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Just one comment. I believe there was, before that determination, there was a lot of
discussion about scheduling and things got confusing. And that's why we added in items that were on a
prior agenda. And, you know, that's fine if we want to go forward with that.
I think I would prefer having any comments that were relevant to the charge of the committee, eventually.
Because people, for one thing, they might not be super aware of the agenda. But for another, they might
have really good ideas for the Committee to pursue. So we're left with the Board's determination on that.
But I think in the future, it would really be better to open it to something that the committee could act on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. As I recall, part of the argument in favor of receiving public
comment during committee meetings was that there was a perception that by the time a decision came to
the full Board it was a fait accompli, and that a Board meeting taking public comment would probably be
not sufficient for Board members to consider public input on a proposed action. So I think that was part of
the discussion. And then it evolved to include previous committee actions. But I really do think that it was
meant to solicit public input on actions that the committee would forward to the full Board for
consideration, so as not to give the impression that it was a slam dunk by the time it got to the Board.
That's just my general comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's my recollection as well. So as we move forward, Ms. McManus, are
you looking for us to make a determination of what that's going to look like in terms of public comment?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I'd invite the input. My initial thought was that we would set up an email
address where folks would be able to see that email address on the agenda and get the items or
comments to us ahead of time. And we would read them-- we would read them into the record during the
committee meeting in the public comment section. That seemed to work pretty well when we did the
public comments for a couple of other efforts that we've done in the Board Office.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are we also thinking that they would be able to come online and talk to the
Board as well?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, they would be invited just like-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The Board meeting.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Like everybody is invited to either the committee or the Board meeting. But some
folks just-- we have found-- would want to just let us know what their comments are and have it read into
the record. And they may or may not show up to the meeting itself to speak to it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I guess I have a little bit of concern about reading written
comments into the record versus just making them a part of the record indicating we've received 15
comments that will be considered by the committee. A couple of reasons. I mean, I could send in a 10
page written comment and do we cut the person reading it off at three minutes or what we do?
And then I think it also-- I don't want to-- it also will incentivize people to just constantly send written
comments without the obligation of coming before the Board and really talking about those things. Maybe
that's not so much a big issue. But I think you have a bigger risk of long-winded written comments that
could make things much more, in a time sense, would make things difficult. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And then I keep thinking about if, for instance, if somebody
comes before Operations Committee and signs up, but they're not talking about operations. What are you
all thinking about that as well?
Because it seems to me, if we're going to open up public comment, then the public should be able to
comment. And it may not be germane to the agenda that's happening. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, well the Board action that we already took indicates that the comments need to be
germane to the committee. So I think that's already taken care of. If they start wandering off course, then I
think we can correct them and tell them when the next meeting of the appropriate committee is. But they
also have the ability to come to the Board meeting and make comments about-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's correct. I'm wondering if we have a statement at the beginning of the
committee meeting that talks about public comment should be germane to what we're speaking about,

current, past, or future, might not be a bad talking point for the Committee Chair to be able to have at their
disposal. Any other discussion, questions, comments on this? First Vice-Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Not on this. I've just got one other quick thing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's just-- it's come to-- the Tabor issues have been coming up. They came up at a
couple of meetings. And I had a good conversation with Melanie yesterday. I haven't had a chance to talk
with Debra, but it's been on Twitter about a possible public meeting.
And I'm hoping that some sort of at least general overview for the Board about what will happen, when it
will happen. I think probably-- I think staff's talking about, if anything, doing something in 2024. And I think
that probably makes the most sense. But some sort of update of what is at issue and what we should be
paying attention to, I think would be helpful at this point or pretty soon.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Second Vice-Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, on that piece. Normally, you build up to these elections. They're so critical. It takes
a lot of preparation and strategy and so forth. And I think Director Broom, in particular, has been urging
that we sort of get on that. And it would be interesting to know the approach we're taking and whether we
are identifying as potential election year 2024 or anything earlier.
Sometimes agencies will try early so as to be able to go back on a second crack at it. I just am interested
in how much we have begun to think about that. It's so critical, it usually takes a long a long time to
prepare for and so forth.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Yes, General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much, Madam Chair. So just for everyone's edification,
recognizing that you adopted our legislative program in October of this year. And more so, that we
included this aspect of Tabor in the midst of our legislative program.
Recognizing that there is an interest, we're doing our-- we're doing our due diligence at this juncture.
Recognizing that was just approved by you a few weeks ago, we have reached out and are in the midst of
doing some preliminary investigative work as it relates to our path forward. More so, recognizing the
comments that Director Cook has put forward, recognizing election cycles, we have to be prudent, quite
naturally, to get more people to the polls when there is a major election versus a local election and things
of the like. And we're taking that all into consideration.
To Director Guissinger's comments as well, sooner than later, I go back to what I said as it relates to the
sustainability piece. We want to ensure that we're doing our due diligence so we can bring information to
you, so you're aware. And we do anticipate doing something in the near term. And when I say near term, I

would say probably within the next few months of 2022 because at this juncture, we're just starting to roll
up our sleeves, recognizing you just approved our legislative program.
So this comment is geared toward managing expectations with what we have before us. And right now,
they have just been preliminary discussions, as I have yet to be briefed by the team, recognizing that this
is where we are. So I appreciate the dialogue. And you have my commitment, of course, you guys will be
apprised.
And recognizing Director Sloan's comments, when we talk about a retreat. From a policy level, these are
the type of aspects that I would surmise that you would be discussing relative to the Board deciding what
direction that the agency would take in relationship to such an initiative as this. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, thank you. Any other comments from Board members or
Executive Committee members? I am seeing none. Ms. McManus, maybe you could talk a little bit about
what the next steps would be in terms of looking at a retreat possibility?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we would first of all have to determine a scope of work in what we would want
to accomplish and then go out for an RFP to find a facilitator to move forward with that. And also, have to
try to find a space. I already have Tai-Shrea looking into some dates for the external meetings that we've
had in the past to see what's available. But putting together a scope of work and an RFP and getting that
on the street would be the next critical steps in the timeline that you're looking for.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Any other comments, questions, or other matters to come
before the Executive Committee? OK, seeing none, I want to thank you all. This has been a great
meeting a lot of conversation.
And I want you to have a great Veterans Day. I will now call for adjournment at 12:18 PM Mountain
Daylight Time. Is it still Mountain Daylight Time? Or is it-- no, it's Standard Time, right?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Standard.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's right. Do I have any objections to adjourning? Seeing none. Thank
you, ladies and gentlemen. Have a great day.

