Mar 12 2020 1130 AM Executive Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --Chair, District C.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm Shelley Cook, District L.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Barbara McManus, Board office.
VINCE BUZEK: Vince Buzek, District J.
NATHANIEL MINOR: Nathaniel Minor, Colorado Public Radio.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And on the phone?
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Peggy Catlin, District N.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hey, First Vice Chair Catlin. OK.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Natalie Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, hey, Natalie.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Hi.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There still is two.
VINCE BUZEK: I think Doug's on the phone, too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): I can't get it off mute. Yes. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you.
DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): OK, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, man. We were almost safe.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
Well, we want to talk about the March Board meeting agenda review. So has everybody had a
chance to take a look at this? Any changes? Anything at all, or are we OK? First Vice Chair
Catlin, are you OK with the agenda?

PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Pardon me, I was putting it on mute. I didn't hear your
question, Director.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Are you OK with the agenda proposed for March 24th?
Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, all in favor?
SHELLEY COOK: Did we need a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, do we need a motion?
SHELLEY COOK: I'll move approval of the agenda as presented.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. It's moved by Director Cook and second by Secretary
Buzek. All in favor?
VINCE BUZEK: Aye.
SHELLEY COOK: Aye.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All opposed? OK, it moves unanimously. OK.
Besides that, did we want to talk about the Operations Committee component?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We can talk about that now, if you'd like. So we have been talking
about what steps we can take to shorten the meetings.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And so I took this off last Tuesday's Operations consolidated agenda
as an example. And what I did was I took all of the information items which are normally under
Updates. And so we would do normally Recommended Actions, then we would do Updates. And
Updates would only be something new that's being brought to the Board or updates to something
like the LiVE program or any new programs that we were rolling out that we wanted to keep our
finger on the pulse of.
But all of the other performance management statistics and quarterly reports would then go under
Information, with the expectation that any Directors would review all of that information. And if
they had any specific questions on those statistics, that they would get them to the Board Office

to get them answered by staff. And we could either send the questions and the responses to the
full Board prior to the meeting, or if we felt that it was something that was more important, then
we could review and address those questions briefly in committee. That, taking all of those
additional items off the agenda for discussion in the meetings.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's a good idea. I like it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Barbara McManus.
SHELLEY COOK: I have a question.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So it's up for discussion right now what everybody's thoughts on that
are, or if there are other thoughts that might be helpful in shortening the meetings.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: One other item we might consider is some provision for people, Board
members to request that it be pulled from Information to Update, if there's-- and maybe with
consent of the Board, that can be done or something like that, if there's something that they feel
needs to be addressed in more than just, or would benefit from public discussion.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I think that would be fine. But I would ask that we set the protocol up
that that be done ahead of time. Because the AGMs are not going to have all of their staff here
for the meetings, you know, because we're infringing on their time. So we want to make sure that
we have the right folks that are here that can speak to that.
But I mean, I think that's fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I wonder if we should then move those requests, if we see
something, to the Chair of that committee, or the Vice Chair of that committee-BARBARA MCMANUS: Good idea.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --to bring forward, so that when they're meeting with the staff
and determining what the agenda items are for the packet, that they be leading that charge with
that. Does that sound OK, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: It'd be after the fact.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, it's usually after the fact.
SHELLEY COOK: But yes. But still routing it through, yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did you run this through the SLT?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK, good.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And they're good with this idea.
BARBARA MCMANUS: They are thrilled with the idea.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sure.
VINCE BUZEK: So am I. I think it's a great idea, Barbara. Thanks. I appreciate it. Because so
many of these things are just standard updates. And this will hopefully get Directors more used
to not waiting till the last minute to ask questions, but actually reading the packet and asking
their questions ahead of time, knowing that staff is not going to be there to answer questions if
they wait till the last second.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, and if it is asked, we can just say that we'll get back to you with
the answer after the fact.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. Absolutely. Yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And I think that we have to socialize that with the Chairs. Because if
we go down that road of starting discussion in Information, it sort of takes away from what we're
trying to do. So we just have to be cognizant of how we're just going to manage getting the
information to Directors that need them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think it's a great idea. Just for the record, Director Catlin is
now here in her person.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Sorry, I had to put gas in my car.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's OK. That's all right. OK, any other discussion on this?
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, I think the Operations and Customer Service Committee probably
is the one-- no, that and the Finance Committee-- probably are the two that have the greatest
amount of information. And they've generally been put together. Because it seems to me like the
FasTracks committee, and Public Relations and Communications, it almost seems like it could
load one-- you could swap out one of those.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, the thing is, when I've talked to senior leadership about this
before, Operations and Finance dovetail so much together that a lot of their reports speak to
whatever meeting is first that they-- even though they're the longest meetings, we try not to add a
third or fourth meeting onto these dates. We try to add them on to the alternating dates with
Planning and Operations-- I mean, Planning and FasTracks. And Planning and FasTracks sort of
dovetail in their own way as well.

And then we do Communications and Civil Rights and any of the one-off meetings that we don't
meet regularly with, you try to get into that cycle and not this one.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Fair enough. I just thought, because this is pretty laden with information,
I just-VINCE BUZEK: That's a good idea.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's also harder for Board members to digest all of that information.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we're trying to cut some of the information out so that what is
important does bubble up and does get addressed and everybody has understanding and they're
not overwhelmed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other questions?
SHELLEY COOK: So just food for long, long, long range thought. The 2010 audit had-- I don't
think they phrased it as a strong recommendation, more like a suggestion-- but the idea of
returning to committees of less than the whole. And I was struck the other day by the caliber of
discussion that we were able to have here. And that's what we used to do, you know. You had a
subcommittee who kind of specialized, as it were, in a particular topic. And they tended to get
into the weeds a little bit more. And then the recommendation came forward.
And the subcommittees met in this setting, which gave them a little bit more, you know, back
and forth ability and so forth, a greater understanding, I think. So that way, you'd still have Board
understanding of the issues, to the extent that works well. And yet, you didn't have everybody
deluged with stuff and really long meetings and so forth.
So I can forward to you that segment. But it's just for long range, not for any suggestion right
now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I actually thought that the meeting about the fares-- the fares, the
service reduction was very, very good discussion. And I think it really helped us in our meeting
afterwards. And I'd like to do more of those. I think it's a great format for that.
VINCE BUZEK: You mean a pre-meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Like a pre-meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, yeah. Right, right. That was very helpful.
SHELLEY COOK: It was.
PEGGY CATLIN: A word of caution, though. Director Lewis would have a really-- and Director
Mihalik-- would have a really hard time making those meetings.

VINCE BUZEK: True.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I know that Director Lewis was frustrated because she thought it was
such an important meeting and was unable to attend. So we just need to be a little bit careful to-SHELLEY COOK: Or if the subcommittees were less than the whole day. Ideally, we'd set the
meeting when all the members could attend.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. I mean, I think the other part of this is, in fact, we are
elected officials. And when we ran for this office, it wasn't between the hours of so and so. And
you know, if you can make it, great. If you can't make it, that's OK, too. But maybe you could
have a buddy who could give you information or that you could send what your issue or concern
or whatever it is might be.
But I do think for the good of this agency we just have to keep moving forward. We just have
way too much work to do. And I think it is problematic for Director Lewis and Director Mihalik,
and sometimes for Director Williams. But I also think that we really just need to get this done.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I agree. We need to move forward. But I just wanted to-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it.
PEGGY CATLIN: --put it on the record that I was speaking on their behalf.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I think that's great.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Can we add a couple other names to that, with concerned
individuals about were meetings shifting from 5:30. And that would be my name and Director
Walker also. It covers issues and [INAUDIBLE] the GM search. And the way we shift it, it
becomes only somebody who is self-employed or has flexibility or is independently wealthy to
be able to serve the public. So there's my opinion on this issue.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's fine.
Duly noted, Director Menten. Thank you for those comments. I mean, I think this is just a tough
thing to do, period. But when we ran for office, we ran for the office, there was-- we knew kind
of what we were getting into. It's always been lots of different work on behalf of the agency. And
so yeah, I mean, I think it is something people need to take a look at as they're thinking about
running for public office as we move forward. But duly noted.
Secretary?
VINCE BUZEK: I agree, Madam Chair. Our obligation is to attend our Board meeting once a
month.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right.

VINCE BUZEK: That's our obligation. But obviously, there's a lot more than that. I mean, we
are all out in the communities during the day, during the evenings, on weekends and things like
that. It's just, you knew the job was dangerous when you took it. So it's important to know that, I
suppose, when you're getting into it. But I get the frustration.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I understand it completely. OK.
So what do you all think about this? Should we adopt this to bring forward to the Board? Is that
going to be our recommendation?
VINCE BUZEK: So next step, yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I believe that's the next step, right? All right. Who wants to
make a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: I move we bring this to the Board for approval.
SHELLEY COOK: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. It's been moved and seconded. Any other discussion?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So what will happen at this point is we can have a discussion about it
in Other Matters at the Board meeting. Or we can wait till next month's meeting cycle and we
can put it on the agenda as an update and then move it forward as a recommended action the
following week, and then bring it to the Board in April.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That would be my preference. But what do you all-BARBARA MCMANUS: That gives everybody time to weigh in on it and-VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, good.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's probably better.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's probably-BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I'll update her. Aye? All opposed? OK. We will do that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I'll use this as an example. I'll prepare an email. I'll get it to all the
Directors ahead of time, along with the schedule.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sounds good.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would like to go back to the agenda that we approved for
March 24. And I'm wondering, under the retiree awards, do we know if these-- good afternoon,
Mr. Ballard-- do we know if these folks are planning to come?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We don't know yet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm wondering if it wouldn't be a good idea to try and do another
little reception for them to join us before the Board meeting. I thought that went really well. And
they loved it, like bringing their families. They really thought that was special.
But what do you think? Secretary?
VINCE BUZEK: If we're going to have an in-person Board meeting, that was going to be my
next question. What are everybody's thoughts on triggering that emergency protocol and having
our meeting over the phone?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I mean, well, my thought is is we did it for those folks that were
inconvenienced. If we were going to add it to our regular protocol, there are dollars that come
with that, as well as as we move through the year and we're busier, a lot of-- there's going to be a
lot of business being conducted right up until dinnertime on Tuesdays.
So I wouldn't want anybody to be invited but then feel slighted because we didn't have the time
or the population of the Directors to spend with them. So I think it's a good idea. Maybe we look
at it down the road when we're not in such a budget crunch and we don't have so much business
on the table.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I agree. Those folks that we honored last time had been slighted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, they were. They were slighted.
PEGGY CATLIN: We probably need to take a look at the order of things, if we're going to have
executive session, not to keep staff and guests waiting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I agree. I agree. Director Buzek-- I mean, Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No, I had nothing further Madam Chair. Thank you, though.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do think I would like to bring up the resolution about remote
Board meetings. And I did have a conversation this morning with a city council person to ask
what they were doing. And she said, we don't know yet. We've not been notified. They've
canceled all community meetings with the city of Denver until further notice. Like even the rec
centers are no longer having classes or anything.
And they want a copy of our resolution so that they could take a look at it and then maybe utilize
that in their research on how they're going to move forward. But I do think it's an interesting
place we're in.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So I was going to bring that up in Other Matters again. So thank you.
This is a perfect segue.
John and I have been working with IT and trying to figure out how we're going to do our
meetings remote, especially if it has to be a Board meeting that needs to be recorded and needs
public participation. And we've found a solution. We're being trained on it on Monday. It's the
same solution that we utilized in the past for the telephone town halls. We'll be utilizing that
through Roger Sherman's office.
For the Directors themselves, they will-- Roger is setting up a singular number for us so that we
can track the cost of that. Because in SLT, we were asked to make sure that we are tracking all
the costs of any changes that need to be made based upon the coronavirus. So we're working on
that.
And Chair, we did put it on your calendar, too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I saw it. I was like, Roger, OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And that would be just because you would have to be managing the
speaker queue with the public who would be on the phone in the Board meeting itself.
PEGGY CATLIN: Could I participate in that meeting as well, in the event that the Chair is
absent?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Actually wondering if the whole Executive Committee could.
Cause if for some reason, neither one of us are there-PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, that's true.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --it would be great to have every-BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, maybe just the two. Because I don't want to post it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, that's right. OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And we can just do a train the trainer session with everybody else and
get everybody else up to speed.
PEGGY CATLIN: When is the meeting?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's Monday. I'll forward it to you when I get back to my desk.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know, I'm going to be violating protocol here. I looked at this and I
looked at my calendar. And Director Tisdale and I are meeting with Jennifer Ross-Amato
tomorrow. And she's going to brief us for the ad hoc committee on litigation. There really isn't
anything that would require executive session. But mainly what we're going to be talking about

is how they're tracking on the budget, since in this phase, depositions and all that, they are
spending money. But she's going to give us an update on where we are with those things.
So should I do it in Other Matters, give an update?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If you don't mind-- I think-PEGGY CATLIN: I can. So we don't change the agenda. But-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That would be great.
PEGGY CATLIN: --I'll need to be reminded. OK. Just wanted to let you all know that that was
coming up.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So what would happen is we'll get trained on. Once I see what it looks
like, then I'll send instructions out to all of the Directors. I don't know if we'll get to the point
where public meetings are canceled. It looks like it may happen. Some folks asked if we-- since
APTA was canceled whether or not we were going to have the Board meeting this coming week.
And I said, I think we should just let it lie the way it is, see how everything develops, and not
make those changes.
PAUL J. BALLARD: That's a good idea. I like a week's reprieve.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, a week's reprieve is good. So anyway-PEGGY CATLIN: There have been a number of cancellations this morning.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, the schools and-PEGGY CATLIN: Well, all the basketball tournaments and stuff. High school. It's just going like
wildfire.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I mean, this is a whole new level.
DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to add if
Barbara could, while discussing this with Roger, see if there is also an option that we could have
a secured connection, so as to be able, if necessary, to conduct executive sessions remotely. I
know that Jenifer will have-- Jenifer Ross-Amato will have to weigh in on that. But I think that
there may be a process for that. And I think of, for example, the GoToWebinar folks that APTA
uses for meetings that perhaps might constitute satisfaction of the open meetings law.

So just a request that will be addressed by Roger and Jenifer.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, that that's on our list to figure out how to isolate those
meetings. And the reason that we went with Roger's solution, and we looked at five or six
solutions, internally and externally, was that we have the opportunity, through that particular
piece of software, to also record it. And we do record executive sessions. So we still would need
that capability.
I'm pretty sure that the software that Roger users will be fine. And then I also said-- he feels that
this is within the scope of work of this contract. If we have to do this on a prolonged basis, then
we would revisit that. And I've already spoke to procurement about that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, that's good.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Also, the cost-DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): Thank you very much.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. Also, the cost of those meetings is approximately the same cost
as what we-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If we have it here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, it's the same cost as the food, which we wouldn't have to
provide.
PEGGY CATLIN: We'll save the food.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So it's, right now, it's just a net-net of dollars.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That is actually really good news.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. So just wanted to keep you up to speed that we are ready for
that. And this is-- John just worked on what a script for that type of meeting would look like.
JOHN MCKAY: I'll send that out to the folks on the phone right now.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, thank you. Can you pass it to him?
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, forgive me.
DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): [INAUDIBLE]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hello? Did you say something, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): No, sorry. I was just switching from the car to the phone.

BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. John is about to-- he's going to be sending the folks on the phone
a copy of the document we have in front of us. And it's basically just a script of what we would
do over the phone. And each action, as you see it, has a list of everybody's name in alphabetical
order, so that we could go around and get the vote record, since we wouldn't be able to do that.
And since this would actually be a call, all of the Directors would be able to have the packet in
front of them on either their RTD device or their home device, so that they could be following
along just like we were in a regular meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And then we did also discuss if we were doing remote meetings, we
would not be bringing any updates unless they were critical updates. We would only be doing
action items and conducting business. Any questions that the Directors had on normal updates
that would happen in those meetings would be directed to the Board Office, and I would get
those answers with staff and get everything out to the Directors who requested.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. All right. This looks great. It seems to me I'm going to
have to have a lot of practice sessions on this.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, and you know, we might, we probably will do some sort of a
run through in the next couple of weeks. And then I don't know in what meeting, but in other
matters, unless we can be organized enough to get it on an agenda, we're going to do a
technology update to the Board and pretty much lay all of this out and everything about public
meetings, what our communications team is doing to be proactive, how they're getting
everything out there to meetings that would normally be with the public that maybe can't happen.
So I don't know when that will happen, but we're pulling it together, and hopefully within the
next couple of weeks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: So couple quick things. You know, we can anticipate that a certain number
of us are going to get the coronavirus. So I think the original idea of having more of us in that
session. But maybe we do it in a subsequent session, so that you train the entire Executive
Committee so you don't have to post it, in other words.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, she was saying train the trainer.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Right. Once we learn how to do it, we'll be able to-SHELLEY COOK: So will we meet with you to do that, or-- just, I don't even know. I guess I
want more than that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't know what it looks like myself, so it's hard for me to say. But
once I sit down in front of it on Monday, I'm pretty tech savvy, and so is John. We'll figure it out.

We'll make any adjustments that we think we may need to make in the script, based on what the
software looks like and what the Chair will be looking like on the screen. I think we'll be able to
see questions. We'll be able to monitor any public questions that come in. Not that we do at
regular meetings, but we do have that capability. So we probably will let people know they're
next in the queue and things like that.
So once I get my arms around that, then we'll figure out the best way to get everybody else
trained. And it'll be pretty quick.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And the other thing is, did you say we'll have some means, or we're
going to activate Pauletta's group to help get the word out about how people can listen in? I
mean, that will be part of what-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. We'll probably-- you know, if our meetings are going to go
remote, we'll probably do a press release, I would think. I haven't talked to Pauletta about what
that looks like yet. But I did meet with her this morning about how we're moving forward and
how we're segregating it so that we know the dollars and getting the word, making the segregated
phone number and making sure they're on the packets. And then she'll probably go out on social
media and do their normal with messaging.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I also think we-- I'm sorry, if we can send it out to our
committees, like APAC and the CAC and all those folks, so that they know. First Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: This is just probably getting in a little bit in the weeds. But as you go through
these agenda items and go through in alphabetical order, you might want to put your name in
there as, I don't know if you want to comment or make a comment on something after you go
through, cycle through the Directors. Do you see what I mean?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there any other discussion? So like right before they're-PEGGY CATLIN: I'll proceed through the Directors in alphabetical order. Director Broom, do
you have any questions? Director Buzek.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, because there's no public participation.
PEGGY CATLIN: And then you need a place holder is there for you to make comments.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's the main difference, yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's just a detail but-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, it's good. Yeah, thank you. I guess I should be in there.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. So Director Cook brought up that the committee chairs will
need to know too. They'll have this same script.

PEGGY CATLIN: Same script, yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we normally don't provide scripts for the committee meetings. But
in this scenario, we would so that they would have everything in front of them and they wouldn't
have to remember all the Directors' names. And of course, they're not in the same room, so it's
not like going around the room. But yeah, we'll make sure that everybody has what they need
and they're comfortable with it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Great. And you know, we've all done the town hall
meetings and we've seen the questions come up. And it looks pretty complicated to me, but I'm
hoping they're going to do a remedial class for us. Because I am not tech savvy.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, you won't be seeing as much because you won't be in a room
with everybody, with the monitors.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's true.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So it'll be a little less confusing. You'll just be seeing, the Directors
will have their packets up. They'll be on the phone. They'll be hearing everything as the meeting
is being managed. But they're not going to see everything you see in the telephone town halls,
which is how many people are in the speaker queue, what questions are coming up. You know,
there's going to be a lot less optics for you in this scenario.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: So what time is that meeting Monday?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'll send it to you. I think it's 3:00.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. It is.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Monday's at 3:00?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I remember that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. The only other thing I wanted to bring up in this agenda is
when we were talking about how committees can be shorter, I'm wondering, is there a way for us
to increase the number of times that Civil Rights comes to the Board? Because I think twice a
year might be too little, particularly with all of the discussion that's been happening at the
legislature. And that's been a real focus is if they could start coming, I don't know how many
times, but more than two.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So as part of the metrics that we decided to move forward with at the
retreat, that was one of them, changing that from two to four. I'm pretty sure since that's low

impact, it's going to wind up staying on the list. And I know that Director Lewis has already
spoke to Zamy about that. She also has some additional ideas that I want to run past the Chair.
And then we'll bring it back to this committee, depending on what we feel is being requested.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I will say that the Senate Bill 151 Judiciary Committee meets on
Monday at 3:00. And if we're meeting-- I mean, from 1:30. I still think we should go forward
with the Roger meeting at 3:00. I wasn't planning to go. Director Catlin, maybe you could, if you
wanted to go there and then meet us at 3:00, that would be great. Because Roger's going to be
going through a lot of specific things, right?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, he'll be running us through how to launch-PEGGY CATLIN: Is this at CRL?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, it's here.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's here? OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Is Lynn going to be back?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Lynn should be back. And I'll-- well, wait a minute. No, she's
not.
SHELLEY COOK: So Vince, are you going to that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Vince is going.
VINCE BUZEK: We're fifth on the list.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I heard.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I think-- are you and Director Whitmore going?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So the plan was, Lynn knew she wouldn't be here so she asked
Vince to step in. And the meeting on Monday is supposed to be really legal questions. Correct?
VINCE BUZEK: Correct. We're meeting this afternoon too with Senator Lee.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK.
VINCE BUZEK: 2:30.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Cool. Are you OK with that then?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I am fine. Although--

DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): Thank you, ma'am. Just to clarify, it's at 3:00 PM then, the
Judiciary, the second judiciary Committee hearing is at 3:00 PM.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's at 1:30.
VINCE BUZEK: 1:30.
DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): Oh, 1:30.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, we're fifth. We're fifth on the agenda.
VINCE BUZEK: It probably will be at 3:00.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So where's it going to be held? Do you know which room?
VINCE BUZEK: I don't know.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Tisdale, we can get you that information if you'd
like that.
DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): Thank you very much, ma'am. Appreciate it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Will do. Of course.
SHELLEY COOK: I'll plan to attend, too.
VINCE BUZEK: We need more lawyers there, Doug. Really, we do. I'm not teasing.
DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): Thank you, yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So my last item is just, I just want to bring up that the review and
decision making for the General Manager search committee is next Thursday at noon, noon to
2:00. Everybody except for Director Guissinger has their packets.
SHELLEY COOK: They're due tomorrow by 9:00, right? The evaluations?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I can't remember.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, they are.

BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Yeah, tomorrow by 9:00.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's what I'm doing this afternoon.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Me, too. And in terms of turning them in by Friday, tomorrow-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 9:00, at night.
SHELLEY COOK: Do we just email you the scan sheets?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. And then you bring everything else with you on Thursday.
PAUL J. BALLARD: She told me I had to type it, and I said I don't have a typewriter.
[LAUGHTER]
SHELLEY COOK: I'm with you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I was trying to get a call. Debbie said that we were looking at
[INAUDIBLE].
BARBARA MCMANUS: So right now, we're looking at the rest of the committee in attendance.
So hopefully, we do have everybody and we'll be able to streamline. I think in my email I did
outline that we did push out for some clarification to the vendors that we'll be getting a response
from by tomorrow on the communications piece. Some weren't as clear as others and-PEGGY CATLIN: Does that change our evaluation potentially?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It might, in my mind.
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't know. And I have not been able to get in front of Linda. So I'll ask her
that question and let everybody know.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That would be a big impact.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that would affect my evaluation.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we might have to push the date out then. But I'll figure it out
with Linda and let everybody know.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: We have the agenda, though, for the 19th, don't we?
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): And I didn't quite catch-- This is Natalie.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Were we talking about might push it out?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): What was the comment about might push the schedule
out? What was that? For the note-BARBARA MCMANUS: That Linda asked for additional information that's due tomorrow.
PEGGY CATLIN: But our evaluations are due tomorrow. And I'm saying that that additional
information may change somebody's evaluation of a firm.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: How will that impact our timeline then, if we pushed it out?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It won't.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It won't?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Because we have from now until Thursday before we're getting
together.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I have to figure out, once we get everything to Linda. And I didn't
remember that everything was-PEGGY CATLIN: So pushing out to 9:00 tomorrow morning until a later time is what you're
saying.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Not the 19th meeting.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not the 19th meeting.
VINCE BUZEK: We'll take till 5:00 PM.

PEGGY CATLIN: You're so generous. Gosh.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Anyway, I'll figure that out with Linda. And we'll make sure
everybody has the time that they need.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Menten, does that answer your question?
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Well, as I look at the cover letter for the evaluation
procedures, what it noted is bring the proposals and completed typed forms to the meeting on the
19th. So I was not clear what-BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't know what tomorrow-- I don't know what's due tomorrow. And
I wasn't recalling that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We'll get back to you on what-NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): I didn't see that I have a requirement to get these back in
tomorrow. I was supposed to take a Word doc or PDF, whatever it is, Word docs, fill them out in
typed format, and bring them to Thursday's meeting.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Right. I will find out what's due tomorrow. I think maybe what they
requested is due to us tomorrow. I don't know that we have anything due to them tomorrow.
PEGGY CATLIN: I thought we did.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I thought we had to have this stuff done by tomorrow at 9:00
AM.
PAUL J. BALLARD: I didn't see a 9:00 AM time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't know where I got 9:00 AM, but I knew I had to go home
and read.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'll look at that as soon as this meeting is over. I don't think-PAUL J. BALLARD: You'll give us guidance?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I will.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Because my packet's at home on my desk ready.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Mine is not scheduled to be looked at before 9:00 tomorrow morning,
so hopefully you're not correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Secretary Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: And I believe that I'm an alternate on this committee, am I not?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You are.
VINCE BUZEK: I've not been kept in the loop on any of this stuff. So maybe I could get up to
speed with what's going on in case I have to step in.
SHELLEY COOK: You didn't get a set, did you?
VINCE BUZEK: [INAUDIBLE]
BARBARA MCMANUS: So the alt-NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): May I ask one more question? This is Natalie. May I ask
one more question, please?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): So my buddy is Director Broom. And I want to just make
sure that it's fine to discuss this proposal with him. Because wouldn't that be what we would
want to do from all of these decision points? To keep my buddies informed? And I just want to
make sure, since we clearly talk about confidentiality, and then this note that's saying,
discussions about the proposals may only take place at the evaluation meeting. And I would keep
my buddy informed.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I believe you would keep your buddy informed at the outcome of
this decision and fill him in on the process and why the decision was made the way it was.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what I understood it to be, as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Me too. Does that answer your question, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Well, if I was one of the buddies, I don't know that I'd be
pleased.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: How was it done last time?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, this-- so it's not a committee of the whole. So the rest of the
Directors are not part of the decision making. The buddy system is set up to make sure that as
we're moving through the process that all of the decisions that are being made are socialized so
that when the full Board gets to make their decisions they have been brought along with
everything that has gone on up to that point.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Director Buzek, did you have a question about-- does he
get a packet?

BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So you are an alternate. If anybody on the committee does not make it
to three meetings, if they missed three meetings, they drop off and you become the alternate. So
it's important that yes, you're part of, that you're here and you're part of what, seeing what's going
on. But you won't jump in until that point.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I just realized that I won't be here.
VINCE BUZEK: So should I be here Thursday or not be here Thursday?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Probably not.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I'll be on a plane on the 19th. I thought I dodged that bullet.
But I'm not. I'm going to be-- unless they close the border.
VINCE BUZEK: Which border?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mexico.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We'll just keep you on there. And if you're not able to be part of it,
you're not able to be part of it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. I mean, people have dropped off before. And it's not like we
only have two or three people. This is a larger than normal decision making committee.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I just realized that I scheduled my flight out so that I can go from here
to the airport.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There you go.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Yeah. All right. So we're good with the agenda. Is there
any other matter?
For the record, Interim General Manager Paul Ballard got here like, I don't know-PAUL J. BALLARD: 11:47.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 11:47. [LAUGHS] Any update, Mr. Ballard?

PAUL J. BALLARD: No, ma'am. But thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Are we-- can I ask a quick question? Are we entering any different phase on
the coronavirus plan? Are we-- where are we on that?
PAUL J. BALLARD: No. We're continuing to do what we've been doing all along. And that is,
we've upped our cleaning schedules and cleaning any particular area if we hear that somebody
was in the same city with somebody else who had it, we go and we clean their space in
particular. But there's nothing in-- nothing has popped up at this point.
SHELLEY COOK: And do we anticipate any guidance coming from the governor or CDPHE?
PAUL J. BALLARD: Oh, yes. We're getting quite a bit.
SHELLEY COOK: No, I mean about cautioning the public not to use transit or anything like
that. Do we expect anything along those lines? I was reading something that said that decision is
a really tough one, because you impact people getting to work. But on the other hand, if you're in
a crowded spot, it may be conducive to transmission or something. And so it's an agonizing
decision about whether you close primary schools, which affects the parents' work, and then also
whether you provide guidance or even direct a shutdown.
PAUL J. BALLARD: Well, our Assistant General Manager, Mike Meader, is plugged into the
meetings with the governor's staff and over at city hall. And that suggestion has not been made,
to the best of our knowledge, by anybody locally. That suggestion has been made elsewhere. But
we've not heard anyone locally in Colorado to make that recommendation.
PEGGY CATLIN: It was interesting to look-- this was yesterday about mid-day-- the number of
cases in each state. And I mean, King County, Seattle's the worst, and then New York and
California. But Colorado's was fairly high compared to a number of other states. But there were a
handful of states that had none.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: One of the questions that I received from a constituent was on
the 16th Street shuttle, if when it circles through and stops for a break, if it could be sprayed
down again before it goes back out. Is that being done?
PAUL J. BALLARD: I don't know specifically. I know that we've significantly increased the
cleaning. And actually I've had comments that the buses never smelled so good on the mall. And
so I don't know that specific answer, but I'll find out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That would be great. Because I think people just want to feel
like they're constantly being cleaned. They're really concerned.
There is a drastic change in the population and the way that they're acting. Everybody, I think, is
really scared, more than anything else. And so I think this is going to be an evolving thing that
we're dealing with.

SHELLEY COOK: I'm beginning to worry about the financial hit, if we're looking at our-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm worried about financial for everybody, for everybody.
SHELLEY COOK: I know Heather's-- they're already modeling different scenarios and things
like that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, with the governor placing a state of emergency, that puts us in
the position in line for federal funding, which is one of the reasons that I think he made that
decision so early on. We don't know what that looks like. But one thing I didn't realize was that
transportation is in that same realm of first responders-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, it is.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --which I had never heard before. So that's great news. Because when
it comes to the supply chain and things like that, we're in a better position than I thought we
were.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Secretary Buzek, when you go to this meeting for Senate Bill
151, one of the pieces that's in the bill is that RTD Board Directors must be present physically at
all Board meetings unless you have a medical emergency.
PEGGY CATLIN: Or they get docked their-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Or they get docked their pay. And I'm wondering if you can kind
of bring that up in terms of in light of the coronavirus. And I know now that they're also looking
at how to augment their meetings and in fact are talking about the possibility of postponing it. So
I think that if you could bring that discussion forward for the record, that would be great.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, and the fact that we already have a plan in place for remote, just
to let them know we're on top of it.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. Exactly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That would be wonderful. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Thanks, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Anything else from anybody under Other Matters? Mr. Ballard?
OK, seeing none, we're adjourned.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): [INAUDIBLE]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Director Menten, go ahead.

NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Yes. So I would like to know if I could get a copy of our
most recent pandemic plan. I've only barely able to retrieve that 2010 plan out of the Hub, back
end. And my understanding through Communications that we've got different comments, we are- let's see, what did it state?
Messaging points that we've been provided say RTD has an updated pandemic plan. Prior to that,
early March we had a discussion that we were updating it. So if I could get a copy of that
updated plan. Is that ready to go?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Director Menten, based on your call this morning, I did meet with
Mike Meader. It is not completed yet. There are three last components that are due to him today.
Once he gets those last three components, I guess they'll do a final review.
He was going to call you, as well, though. Because there's a lot of confidential information in
there that shouldn't be shared with the public. It's work product. It's work plans. So he was going
to call you to see specifically what you were looking for. But that plan is not completed yet. So
that was the last update that I got around 10:00 this morning.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): All right. I'll wait for Mike's call then. We're looking with
great interest what might be confidential in a plan.
Second item is from the meeting that occurred in Fort Worth with a couple of our Board
Directors, one or more staff members, regarding the Peak Service for the Northwest Rail, I
thought we might be getting a brief write-up on that. I've heard a verbal. But is that something I
should request? Is that in the works?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Peggy Catlin, Natalie. We talked about this in the car the other night.
And Henry sent a communication to the BNSF that Director Lubow and I have reviewed before
he sent. And to my knowledge, he is waiting for a memo from the BNSF outlining next steps. So
I would be happy to call Henry and find out what the status of that is.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Great. Third item, Reimagine, I'm worried it's going to
become fuzzy, lose focus for the general public. And they should really be aware of what's going
on with a substantial change in how we operate, potentially. And when we go to the-- when I go
to the Reimagine page on our website, it has one-- last time I looked, which is three days ago-one advisory committee presentation. The rest are really the advisory committee agendas, which
don't really have meat to them.
And then I've attended one of the tech meetings. And I think there's a lot of overlap here. But
could we bring to the attention of staff and having this presentation themselves available to the
public, again, for people who can't attend 7:00, 8:00 AM, 9:00 AM meetings, 2:00 PM meetings,
that we have that available so that we're keeping Board members and the public on what are in
these presentations.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'll call Bill Sirois and talk to him about that. We have requested that
all the presentations and the meeting minutes or overview, I think they're calling them, be posted

on the web site. So I'll double check on that for you. And then you know, we also are having the
Reimagine study session at the end of the month for public participation as well.
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Yeah. And I'm not sure, you know, like the one I attended
in February, that was pretty intense presentation. And considering it seems to be a desire of some
Board Directors to have very brief meetings, I am looking for as much info as possible that's
provided. So whether or not it's part of the meeting and that those presentations are coupled to
that, just so that it's available for somebody who's only free time to look at what we're doing is at
midnight, they're able to do that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. All right. Is that all then for this-- your questions?
NATALIE MENTEN (ON PHONE): Yes, it is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Any other comments, questions for this
meeting? OK, hearing none, we're adjourned at 12:28. Thank you all.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE (ON PHONE): Thank you, Madam Chair.

