## I. Operations and Customer Service Committee

Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

### A. Call to Order

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 7:40 p.m.

Director Daly and Menten were absent.

Staff Present:              Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh, Jr., Barbara McManus, Judy McMurphy, Robert Medina, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Beverly Scott, Jim Stadler, Walt Stringer, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:              Martell Dyles, Helga Grunerad, Sherman Hamilton, Dan Pearsall, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Martin C. Willie

#### 1. Donation of Vintage Rolling Stock

It is Recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to donate seven vintage trolleys and buses for restoration purposes to the Pikes Peak Historical Street Railway Foundation, (dba) Colorado Springs & Interurban Railway.

Motion:              Director Sisk made the motion to move this to the full Board at the April 16th, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:              David Genova, Assistant General Manager for Safety and Security and Robin McIntosh, Senior Manager of Facilities stated that in 2012 when they discussed the opportunity for disposal of these vehicles, the Board had asked them to look for other alternatives.  They contacted different vendors and the Pikes Peak Historical Street Railway Foundation (PPHSRF) has offered to accept all vehicles.  PPHSRF has the funding and resources to restore and operate the electric trolleys in Colorado Springs and Manitou Springs.  The historical report is attached to the Board packet.

Director James thanked staff for their effort to reach out to other organizations.  Director James also thanked Scott Reed for agreeing to maximize the public relations value by making sure we have a press release.  He believes we could get a great deal of positive publicity out of this donation.

Director Lasater stated that he understands that we have fiscal constraints, but he doesn’t like the idea of our history going somewhere else.  Though he understands there is a huge cost for restoration, without one’s past we have no future.  We are selling off the past and he doesn’t like it.  He believes that RTD should preserve, promote and put those vehicles where they can be seen.  It can be done even if it is done one car at a time. This is giving up previous organizational history; the vehicles represent a phenomenal background of how we got where we are today.  He was not here when they talked about this previously but he thinks that we need to have passion about our history because it is important for our future.

Director Folska agrees with Director Lasater that our history is important.  RTD is so energized and should embrace its history.  She mentioned that John Elias has a lot of knowledge about this.  The vehicles are not going to Dubai but Colorado Springs.  Director Folska did note there is a working trolley that is probably owned by the Platte Valley Railroad over by R.E.I.  She does not want to see them go, but it is really important to do something with the vehicles.

Director Deadwyler agrees with Director Lasater.  She remembers when the Board talked about this issue it was agreed that we keep at least one piece so we could display it to show where RTD has been and where we are going in the future.  She is surprised that staff is recommending sending all of the vehicles to Colorado Springs.

Director Solano asked if we have considered the Golden Rail Museum and the Forney Museum of Transportation that Henry Stopplecamp had mentioned during Railroad 201 class.  David Genova responded that they did send letters to those museums.  The Platte Valley was interested in the vehicles but do not have the resources to restore the cars.  RTD Staff advised them to contact the Colorado Spring Organization when they are able to take any of the vehicles.

Director Bagley stated that he supports the action.  The Board spent a good amount of time going over this issue last year and we need to do the right thing.

Director Tobiassen stated that he assisted with the restoration of the trolley in Aurora.  It was restored by volunteers and contributions, and the association paid $1,500 a month to store the trolley.  Then once it was restored they had to find a location to display it.  He doesn’t think that we are losing our heritage; these trollies need enormous amounts of restoration work.  If we find somebody that loves them it is great.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED to the Recommended Action

##### a. 2013_04 RTD Denver Vintage Rolling Stock Report

#### 2. Access-a-Ride Travel Training Project

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a contract with Via Mobility Services for the provision of Travel Training services. Performance under the contract is for a three (3) year period and the total contract amount shall not exceed $396,288.00.

Motion:              Director Folska made the motion to move this to the full Board at the April 16th, 2013 Board meeting.

Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:              Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager stated that the report is part of the Board Packet.  They have worked with Via Mobility Services on a Travel Training pilot program.  There are working with individuals with disabilities and helping them understand which services are available as well as how to use fixed route services in lieu of paratransit (Access-a-Ride) services, which might help them improve their accessibility and independence.

Staff issued an RFP for travel training services in February of this year.  After reviewing the responses received, staff recommends awarding the contract to Via Mobility Services.

Director Folska asked if this is funded by a grant.  Larry Buter stated that it is in part funded by the FTA New Freedom grant.

Director Sisk encouraged the Directors to go and see how Via Mobility Services is training the people to use the services.  They are doing an amazing job with different companies and people in the area.  This is a state of the art program that is well beyond anything we ever imagined.

Chair Anderson stated that the whole project is wonderful; many people need to be independent and if we can help them, then that should be our goal.

General Manager (GM) Washington stated that this will be a part of the tactical plan to increase ridership.

Director Tobiassen mentioned that he has been working with the Denver Regional Mobility and Access Council (DRMAC) in a program to help people move from Access-a-Ride to independent services.  If we can help them use fixed routes instead of Access-a-Ride that is great.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED to the Unanimous Consent Agenda.

#### 1. West Rail Line Update

Austin Jenkins, Assistant General Manager presented the West Rail Line Operations Update that can be found in the April 9th, 2013 Operations and Customer Service Agenda Packet.  They are moving the West Line to Operations as they get ready for its opening on April 26.  They have started to work the weekend schedule and feel confident with the revised schedules.

He thanked the Board and everybody at RTD.  GM Washington stated that for the employee day they have about 4,000 people that will be present.  This shows the great morale that our staff has.  The VIP reception on Thursday before opening is sold out.  This is a big deal.  He also mentioned that the Governor will sign two bills at the Grand Opening.  This was requested by the Governor’s office.  Also, the Conference of Minority Officials Scholarship Banquet will be on Friday after the opening.

Austin Jenkins also mentioned that they have been working with the Union and they have been very helpful and very cooperative.

Director Folska stated that this is very exciting.  Director Folska, Director Tobiassen and Director Rivera-Malpiede had a private tour with Brenda Tierney, who was amazing.  She stated that the community at RTD is remarkable.

Director Deadwyler stated that this is very exciting.  She has received requests from her family members to be part of the celebration.  She thanked the staff for bringing this project to completion.

Director James mentioned that this has been in construction for such a long time.  The business community is eagerly anticipating it and looking forward to the economic growth.  He asked who will operate the line.  Austin stated that the line will be operated by RTD personnel.  The commuter rail transit will be operated by PTO and RTD light rail personnel will operate I-225.

Director Bagley confirmed that that the Governor will be at the opening signing the two bills.

Director Solano stated that this is good news for the North Metro.  We can now move forward to the North Metro.  He wanted to know if there were more passes available.

Director Rivera-Malpiede shared that her community wanted her to say thank you.  This has made a tremendous change in the community.  They are very thankful for the re-alignment that was done as part of the project.

##### a. West Rail Line Update Jenkins - OPS Committee

#### 2. Smart Card Project Status Update

Bruce Abel stated that the report can be found in the Board Packet.  Beverly Scott and Judy McMurphy were present to answer any questions.  They are doing Smartcard integration testing this week.

#### 3. Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Project Status Update

Bruce Abel stated that the report can be found in the Board Packet.  Eric Farrington, Project Manager stated that they continue to proceed with the implementation.

### D. Other Matters

GM Washington informed the Board of a fatal stabbing that occurred on one of RTD’s buses.  It happened at the Federal Commuter Station.  They arrested the suspect and RTD is cooperating with authorities.

He also mentioned that Staff sent a Transit Oriented Development (TOD) white paper to the Board.  They want to start the discussion in May, during the Planning and Development Committee meeting and continue it at the May study session.

GM Washington stated that there has been a lot of activity on the surplus properties; they have received requests for discounted prices or even to give the properties away.  Staff will not bring any recommendation like that; they will be looking to disposing the properties at fair market value.

### F. Adjourn

Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:17 p.m.