Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 1 of 10

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 17, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
August 14, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Gore, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, and Walker.

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

L. Skip Brown, Carolyn Conover, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bill Holmes,
Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tony
McCaulay, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Phil
Washington, Richard Rost, Robin McIntosh Jr, Libby Cox, Kevin Parker,
Nate’ Malone, Michael Washington, James Cook, Gary Googins, Eric
Farrington

Others Present:

Melanie Asmar, Ferd Belz, Dana Crawford, Claudia Folska, Stan
Gronek, Jim Johnson, Brian Lewandowski, Robert McNown, Rich
Wobbekind
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 6:59 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Donation of Vintage Rolling Stock
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to
donate seven vintage trolleys and busses for restoration purposes to the Pikes
Peak Historical Street Railway Foundation.
Primary

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 2 of 10

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the August 28, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Malpiede seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Dave Genova stated that these vehicles are currently being
stored at District Shops. He explained that one of the buildings
several of the vehicles are stored in needs to be demolished.
Dave shared that we have discussed donation with some local
organizations but unfortunately none of those organizations
have the funding to transport, store, and restore the vehicles.
RTD does not have any funding for this either. He stated that
the Pikes Peak Historical Street Railway Foundation proposal
includes all these costs. Dave also stated that PPHSRF is very
experienced in restoring old vehicles. They do it through
volunteer work and display the vehicles at their location in
Colorado Springs. He recommended the Board move this action
forward so these vehicles can be properly stored and other can
enjoy them.
General Manager Washington shared that there had been
questions as to why RTD was donating the vehicles rather than
selling them in auction. General Manager stated that the risks
of having them not sell and being in the same position was too
difficult. He explained that we know this organization will
refurbish them and share that they came from RTD. Staff
believes this is the best route for these very old vehicles.
Director Daly stated that this had to do with transit history. He
said that unfortunately these vehicles are outdoors and rotting
away. He expressed his disappointment that we could only find
an organization outside the District to take them. He suggested
that we do not give the vehicles away but lease them so if
anyone in the Denver Metro area wants to restore and display
them later we can take them back. He stated another option
would be to put out another RFQ. He believes that this has
come to the Board rather rapidly seeing as how the Board must
vote on the action in one week. He requested this issue be
given more time. He hopes that given more time a local
municipality or other organization would like to have them to
display in a local area.
Director Deadwyler shared that when she saw this action, the
first thing that came to mind was Five Points’ study to see if

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 3 of 10

these types of vehicles would be viable for the area. She
expressed that she believes it is wonderful that Pikes Peak
wants these cars but asked if we had to give away all of them.
She agreed with Director Daly that we should keep at least a
few. Director Deadwyler stated that this recommendation is a
little early because if Five Points finds the vehicles feasible it
would be a perfect way to share our history.
Director O’Boyle shared that when he was at the APTA Rail
Conference in Boston last year he went to a trolley museum.
He commended the museum for being able to take deteriorated
vehicles and through volunteers restore them into amazing
pieces. Director O’Boyle stated that each vehicle has its own
history and credit is given to where it came from. He thinks it is
a worthy proposal and that the Board should donate them to an
organization that has the willingness and capacity to restore the
vehicles.
Director Tayer stated that he is in favor of some of the options
mentioned by Director Daly. He feels that this is part of our
history. He is concerned that once we give the vehicles away
we might regret it. Director Tayer suggested that there are
other alternative arrangements that we can make. He stated
that we could give them to Pikes Peak but have the option to
purchase the vehicles back based on the price of the restoration.
He agrees that there are many opportunities to use these old
systems to demonstrate our history. He suggested they could
be a feature at some of our new rail stops. He also asked for a
visual of the vehicles and how they are being stored before the
next Board meeting.
Chair Kemp expressed that he agrees with Director Daly that
these are part of our history. He stated that he understands we
are in the process of hiring a historian. Chair Kemp believes that
we should have the historian gather some historical information
from the vehicles before we donate them. Chair Kemp also
shared that in San Francisco the system has cars from major
cities that have operated trolleys. He asked if we had contacted
anyone about donating a vehicle to have it as part of that
system. He stressed that he wants to make sure the effort has
been made to make sure we record the history.
Director Malpiede stated that she agreed with Director Daly as
well. She believes there may be some communities that might
want to adopt one of the vehicles.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 4 of 10

Director Cohen stated that while he supports the historical
significance and agrees with some of the comments from other
Directors, it was his understanding that there were not a whole
handful of people lining up to take these trolleys. He stated that
he sees the problem as us having trolleys that are taking up
space and we asked to see if anyone wanted them. He asked
who else besides Pikes Peak Historical Street Railway
Foundation wanted the vehicles. Mike Gil explained that there
was not anyone else that wanted the vehicles. He shares that
this had come up several years ago as well and the only
company/person that expressed interest was a salvage yard.
Director Cohen stated that he supported donating them but
asked that we create an option to get them back.
Chair Kemp asked about the location of car number 119. Mike
Gil stated that it is at Platte. He shared that it is still intact and
can be started. Mike explained that there was some repair work
that needed to be done but it was not for sale. Chair asked if
that was the only historical vehicle that we would be
maintaining and Mike said yes.
Director Walker stated that he agrees with Directors O’Boyle
and Cohen. He believes if there is not a market for these
vehicles in Denver it seems there is one in Colorado Springs. He
stated it is not too far of a drive and it might be a better home
for the vehicles than here.
Director Gore shared his agreement with Director Walker. He
stated that the vehicles may have more cultural value if they are
incorporated into the public art at the stations. He explained
that if we have a piece of a vehicle maybe we could restore just
those parts to enhance the stations.
Director James shared that he agrees with just about everyone.
He stated what is precipitating this issue right now is that there
is a building that needs to be demolished. He asked how urgent
it is that we demolish the building. Director James also asked if
staff was satisfied that they have explored all opportunities for
these vehicles. Dave Genova stated that it probably needed to
be done within the next year. He explained that at our last fire
inspection we were told that the building needed to be brought
to code or torn down. He shared that it is not a building we
want to bring to code. Dave stated that there is another
organization, the Rail Road Museum in Golden, that they tried to
work with but there is a funding issue.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 5 of 10

Director Anderson asked if there was a street car that was in
fairly good shape or were they all just in pieces. Mike Gil
explained that the electric trolley bus is intact but very rusty.
Director Anderson also shared that Arvada has a historical park.
Since there were two inner-urban lines that went through
Arvada, she thought they may be interested in restoring a
trolley. She asked staff to contact Arvada.
Director McMullen shared that several years ago he went to an
APTA conference in Memphis. He explained that there is a
historical trolley line running through the business district and
down along the river front. Memphis went and purchased
trolleys from around the world. He stated that riding the line he
thought it would never work in Denver. They are old, they are
loud, and they are very expensive to maintain. He does not see
a problem in donating the vehicles if we have neighbors who are
willing to take the vehicles and restore them. Director McMullen
expressed his support.
Director Daly shared that when he went to Seattle for an APTA
conference, APTA displayed all their antique busses. He stated
that if you look around town there is an old horse drawn
carriage in Englewood and a resorted street car in Aurora.
Director Daly reiterated that we are giving away our history. He
requested that staff put out an RFQ one more time and expand
it to include the cities within the District.
Committee Chair Tobiassen stated that he believes if we went
to an RFQ there is no guarantee that a responder would keep
the vehicles within our town. He explained that he has been
asked numerous times to find a house for the trolley that was
restored in Aurora. A group of volunteers took 5 to 6 years to
restore it at a cost of $150,000 and now they do not have a
home for it. Committee Chair Tobiassen stated that they keep
asking if RTD can build a museum for it or place it at a new light
rail station and he says no. He explained that we are in a people
moving business and he does not think we have the ability to
store these restored vehicles.
Chair Kemp stated that there had been a lot of questions about
seeing photographs of the vehicles and his questions about if
we had gathered all the historical information. He also asked if
we have truly looked at other areas that would be willing to
restore the vehicles and put them back to use. He feels there is
not enough time to review this thoroughly since the Board must
respond next week. He agrees that we do not have a place for
them and something has to be done. He asked if the proposal

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 6 of 10

would be affected if we delayed it 30 days. Mike Gil stated that
he believes Pikes Peak Historical Street Rail Museum would still
want the vehicles even if the decision was delayed.
Secondary
Motion:

Chair Kemp made a secondary
motion to postpone the
recommended action for another 30
days.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Vote on
Secondary
Motion:

The motion passed with 15
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Gore, Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, and Walker) and 0
against.
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared
the secondary motion PASSED.

II.

Updates


West Line Fare Structure
Director Cohen stated that he looked online and if you are traveling in one or
two zones it is a local fare. If someone is starting from the Jefferson County
Government Center it would be three zones to downtown. He asked for
confirmation that if you are traveling within your zone or adjacent it is $2.25,
three zones if $4.00, and all zones is $5.00. Tony McCauley confirmed that
was correct.
Director O’Boyle expressed that he believes it is time we looked at revising the
fare zones. He stated that it appears that we have only two stations that are
in zone D. Director O’Boyle asked that the fare structure be related to
something like cost on a per mile traveled basis, something more rational,
rather than just circles from a point. He explained that he would like to see a
study on the entire system, the fare zones, and what the fare structure might
be in the future. Tony McCauley stated that staff agrees with Director
O’Boyle, especially with some of the new rail lines. He believes this would be
an appropriate time to review the structure.
Director McMullen asked how the fare structure would work for the rail lines
that we know we are going to build. He would like to see staff to include that
in reviewing the fare structure. Tony McCauley indicated that staff has that
and can get it to the Board. He explained the rational for this fare structure

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 7 of 10

was that the stations in line D were people who were formally riding route P
so they were paying the regional fare. He stated that the bus fare structure is
almost identical to the rail fare structure.


PATH East/West Route
Brian Matthews stated that Development Pathways is a non-profit group
dedicated to serving individuals with disabilities. He explained that they had
two workshops that have since been discontinued. The PATH Routes now
have no riders so the service is being discontinued.
Director Deadwyler asked if there had been any complaints since discontinuing
the routes. Mike Gil stated that there had been no complaints. He explained
that most of the individuals that used the route have now gone onto fixed
route services. The goal of these workshops was to help people get jobs and
now most of them have gone on to do that.



Radio – CAD/AVL Project Status Update
Director Tayer asked how confident Eric Farrington felt that we would see all
items go to a green status in a timely fashion. Eric stated that he has very
high confidence that we will meet our deadlines but there is always risk. He
explained that currently we are in the middle of integration and there have
been some problems. He targeted the end of September to finish installation
but now it is targeted for the beginning of December. Eric stated the
regulatory deadline is the end of the year.
Director Hoy asked if installation was being delayed on purpose until some
other issues were resolved. Eric explained that once the CAD/AVL equipment
was placed on a bus it is in revenue service so that is why we are delaying.
He does not want to put out too many busses on the street that are not fully
functional. Mike Gil shared that there is a dispatcher assigned to these
busses. They are tracking and talking to the busses to make sure everything
works correctly. Right now there are 25 busses and that will keep
accumulating up through December.
Director Malpiede asked if we had a back-up plan since the installation
completion forecast of December 1st is so close to the FCC regulation of
December 31st. Eric Farrington explained that he has submitted a waiver
request to the Federal Communication Commission. We meet all the criteria
for that waiver. Eric expects that it will take 90 days to get a response and
we submitted the waiver about 30 days ago.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if there was any penalty to not completing
the installations. Eric stated that if we get the waiver there will be no penalty.



Smart Card Project Status Update
Director Hoy commented that he has been using his card but has experienced
times when the bus drivers have not turned on the machine. He thinks that

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 8 of 10

during a test phase the machines should be turned on. Gary Googins
explained that the actual test concluded on July 31st. He stated that we have
made great of progress. He believes that not having the machines turned on
is definitely the exception.
Director O’Boyle shared that he too carried his Smart Card. He noted at
Lincoln station in particular that the validator was not in the normal traffic
pattern. He stated that to get the prepaid customers to go out of their way to
validate and then get back to the train was not practical. He asked that if we
are still installing through October can we do something to make these
validators more accessible. Gary Googins explained that part of the problem is
that we are retrofitting some of the stations. He stated that on the West
corridor the stations were designed with these validators as part of the plan so
they will be much more accessible. He shared that we are purchasing some
additional validators so after we implement the smart card and watch the
traffic patterns we can put in additional validators.
Director Daly asked for clarification on the issues mentioned on page two with
CU. Gary Googins explained that different colleges have taken different
perspectives on FERPA (Family and Educational Right Protection Act). He
stated that some colleges believe photos are protected by FERPA. DU and
Auraria have taken this position but CU believes the pictures are releasable.
Gary explained that this is not RTD’s responsibility but each college must
decide if they would like to print their own cards. He shared that the only
college that wants RTD to print the cards is CU. Gary explained that we
would need to enter into an MOU or IGA with CU that would include the
terms of how we would keep those photos. Gary stated that the initial role
out of the currently enrolled 40,000 students is what is being referenced in
the update. Once the new students start next year, CU will self administer
the program.
Director Deadwyler asked for further explanation about some of the fields in
the Smart Card system not being congruent with RTD’s back end systems.
Gary Googins expressed that he is very confident with the solutions our
vendors are providing. He explained that once the conversion is finished we
will have one display so the vendors need to work together. Gary shared that
previously there were some challenges getting the vendors to work together
but this has been resolved. He believes this issue will be solved within the
next couple weeks.
Director Malpiede asked why photos were needed for the Smart Cards. She
thought the idea was that if a student dropped out of class the card could just
be turned off. Gary explained that the photos were used to ensure the person
using the card is the one that has the benefit. He stated that on the validator
screen it will prompt the bus driver to ask for the ID.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 9 of 10

Director Malpiede asked if there was a timeframe for the reduction of Paperbased transfers more than just targeting 2014. Gary Googins stated that if
you ask the drivers it is the single biggest source of loss of revenue for the
District. He explained that some transportation agencies have eliminated
Paper-based transfers. When Paper-based transfers were eliminated in
Houston, adoption of the card increased by 40% and the revenue increased by
millions. He stated that is where RTD would like to get to but it is not that
simple. In order to implement we have to ensure that the Smart Card program
is accessible to all people in the District. He explained that this is more an
item listed for future discussion.
General Manager Washington stated that as the Board has experienced with
implementation of the Paperless Board Packets, systems like this are incredibly
complex. He commended staff, especially Gary Googins and Eric Farrington,
for a great job in rolling these out to the public.


Blake Street Renovations
Dave Genova informed the Board that they would be seeing some work in the
building shortly. He explained that renovations would occur in the Board
Area, EEO and Finance. The reason behind the renovations is to make more
space for additional resources.
Director McMullen stated that we have a historical building to take care of and
asked the costs. Richard Rost said that it varies greatly on what needs to be
done. Director McMullen stated that there is a great expense in maintaining
this building.

III.

Other Matters
Director Bagley stated that he has had people contact him about the number of bike
racks that are on the busses. He asked how many busses are outfitted with bike racks
and what the cost could be to increase the number of bicycles that can be held on a bus.
Mike Gil explained that all of RTD’s busses have at least a two bike rack. He stated that
we are testing a three bike rack in Boulder but they stick out very far. Mike shared that
currently there is not a good three bike rack. Director Bagley asked if that information
could be put on the website.
Director Deadwyler asked if bikes could only be placed on the front of the bus. Mike Gil
explained that on some busses we can put them in the cargo bays but we have to be
careful when we do this. He stated that on local routes it is up to the discretion of the
operator if the rider can bring the bike inside the bus. Normally during peak times this is
not allowed. Mike also explained that having the bikes anywhere but the front can be
very dangerous.
Director Malpiede stated that she has been getting a lot of questions about the large
strollers people are bringing on the busses. Mike Gil informed the Board that a
committee is being put together to address this issue. A brochure is being put together.
He stated that this is an issue for the ADA community.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 10 of 10

Dave Genova informed the Board that this holiday season we may not be able to
participate in an event at Denver Union Station because of construction.
IV.

Next Meeting Date – September 11, 2012

V.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:08 p.m.

