Feb 14 2019 1200 PM Executive Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
DOUG TISDALE: We'll go ahead and get started now, then, for the sake of the record. So for
the sake of the record, it is now 12:05 PM on Thursday, the 14th day of February, 2019. And we
are convened here in the Board conference room for the meeting of the RTD Executive
Committee.
Let me commence by saying happy Valentine's day to all. I trust everyone will enjoy a safe and
wonderful holiday today. The first item on our agenda will be to review the February Board
meeting. I have four specific items I want to address briefly under other matters. And then, of
course, we'll have the General Manager's report. And then we'll adjourn.
But our first item of business is the February Board meeting agenda review. You have before
you in your packet the listing of the agenda for the meeting on February 26. You may be asking
the question, the meeting is on February 26, why are we meeting now on the 14th day of
February instead of the Thursday immediately prior to the meeting? And that's because there is a
legal holiday Monday next week. And so our custom is to avoid setting either committee
meetings or the Executive Committee meeting in a holiday week. And so next week is a holiday
week. That's why we're meeting today.
The agenda consists of the usual items, including retiree awards, public participation, committee
reports, and then any update from GMOC (General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee) that Chair Broom would choose to share with us, approval of minutes,
Chair's report, and then the General Manager's report. And then we have two items that are on
unanimous consent for that meeting. And then we have several recommended actions, all of
which are fresh in our mind, because they came principally from the Financial Committee but
also in terms of the recommended actions. The revised committee charters are also there, the
minor change to the bylaws, and then the amended Board operating guidelines.
Again, you will note your agenda holds a place for Executive Session. We are not aware of and
do not intend to have any Executive Session at that meeting at the present time. Things change.
That's why we keep that in there as a placeholder, so that we know where it goes.
All right, that said, let me point out that relative to all of these items you find attached in your
packet-- the Board reports and various resolutions-- the committee charters are presented to you
here. These charters as submitted here are the full red line, showing the changes, right? Am I
correct, Ms. McManus, on terms of the red line that we have attached? These are the full red
lines that were presented to the Committee? Barbara, that's actually a question. Sorry.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry. John just let me know that someone from the public is
being escorted up. So I was just responding to him.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, OK. Great.

BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry. Can you ask the question again?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, we have to make sure that we have enough chili, too, in that case.
[LAUGHTER]
The question is, the copies attached here in the agenda packet are the full red line as was
presented to the committee?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, and as was sent out previously-DOUG TISDALE: Right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --with two additional administrative updates that were brought
forward by staff. One is in the Communications and Government Relations Committee charter,
the addition of the AGM of Communications, which when we started this process, there wasn't
one. So we added that in, now that Pauletta has joined us.
And then, congruent with the decisions of the changes of the bylaws in 2016, the exclusion in the
Finance Administration and Audit Committee charter of human resource policies in the first
sentence of the Finance Administration and Audit Committee was taken out. Other than that-and they were distributed as well to the full board. But they were not discussed in the meeting on
Tuesday.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
DAVE GENOVA: If I may add to that, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
DAVE GENOVA: The addition of Assistant General Manager of Communications was-- the
committee formerly being Government Relations-- the staff lead was the Government Relations
Officer. But that position reports to the AGM in Communications.
DOUG TISDALE: AGM for Communications.
DAVE GENOVA: So it's appropriate to make that change. And I apologize. I didn't catch that
before.
DOUG TISDALE: No. That's fine. Again, to go back to the comments that we made on Tuesday
night, we promised the state auditor that all of these things would be continually reviewed. They
asked for an annual review. And we undertook, in March of 2010, to commit to a continuous
review. So we absolutely commit to that.
All right, and then, in addition to those two administrative changes, no other changes have been
made to the committee charters that are submitted. And you also have a separate packet down

there of the clean version of the committee charters, as revised last Tuesday by the additional
amendments and by these two administrative amendments that Ms. McManus has reported. So
those are the items under recommended actions for the Tuesday Board Meeting.
Then as I said, the balance of the agenda is pro forma relative to Executive Session, old business,
and new business. Having laid out the agenda for the Board Meeting, are there any questions,
comments, or concerns relative to the Board agenda as set forth? If there are none, may I have a
motion to approve the Board agenda?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. I have a second?
JEFF WALKER: Ms. Malpiede.
DOUG TISDALE: And you've seconded that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so we have a second. And is there any discussion on the motion to
approve the Board agenda for the February 26 Board meeting? Hearing none, all those in favor,
please indicate by saying, "Aye."
ALL: Aye.
PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: And I'll say, Vice Chair Catlin, thank you for chiming back in. OK. So we
have-PEGGY CATLIN (ON PHONE): [INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: We have a unanimous vote relative to the approval of the February Board
agenda. And my very particular thanks to everyone for your tremendous cooperation and
collaboration on Tuesday night in getting us to this point with these things. This is certainly
something that we can now make sure that everyone in the public knows that yes, we do at least
annually review the various rules and procedures and protocols that govern the RTD Board, and
make sure that we are responsive to any issues, concerns, changes that arise.
In connection therewith, there is an effort being undertaken by Board staff that has already been
essentially completed relative to various proposed changes of an administrative or ministerial
nature to the bylaws. Again, the same kind of catch-up work that we did to the charters in large
part, making things consistent, updating references, and so forth. And I think it's been three years

since we last looked at the bylaws. And so therefore, it's appropriate to do that. That will come
forward at that time
Should, for example, any Director wish to bring forward a further amendment to the bylaws, our
intent is to wrap them all up together and bring it forward at one time. So that instead of just
doing this piecemeal, over the course of several weeks, we'll be able to have one meeting, much
like we had Tuesday night, and just go through everything. As I said, all of these, I believe-even the one that was proposed Tuesday night-- are essentially pretty administrative and
ministerial in nature. We're not talking about substantive changes. So that's the update on that.
In terms of matters to bring to your attention, the Board SLT retreat-- yes ma'am?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would like to add that when we bring those bylaws forward, we'll
also be bringing forward the resolution that we do the first meeting of every year, because that
also dictates, based on the bylaws, what that change will reflect. So we will need to have an
updated resolution on that as well. So look for that.
DOUG TISDALE: And that resolution, for your information, that's the one that talks about
posting of notices.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Just so you're aware. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: I'm sorry. I didn't catch the date about when-- or time frame.
DOUG TISDALE: We're hoping to do it in March so that we can bring it to-- and we're not
certain yet whether it would go to Operations or Finance and Audit. It may go to Finance and
Audit. I just hate to throw everything back at Director Mihalik again and have him have to deal
with all that. But it will either go through Operations or Finance and Audit in March. It will then
come to the Executive Committee for the final review and approval and then come before the full
Board. And as I say, that's intended to cover everything, including the amendment of which we
were made aware that was desired by Director Menten on Tuesday night.
And part of that related to my next topic, which is the Board SLT retreat. We have I believe
now-- and I don't know if Mr. Genova has had a chance to look at this, because I did a little
tweak on that too. We have, I believe, the final version of the agenda ready. And we'll be
distributing that this afternoon. So you'll have it.
But to give you a preview, it will function much as it did last year with some hopeful
improvements. It will begin with an introduction by me, sort of setting the table. Susan and
Michael will then talk about a summary of the February Board retreat, provide that information-and this is all in the agenda, so you'll see this-- a summary of the February Board retreat and then
give a context for how we do it. And the context is to get us ready for the discussions that we'll
have.

After, the next topic is agency successes, challenges, and opportunities moving forward, which is
a presentation by our General Manager, and then the opportunity for Q and A with the General
Manager. That, again, helps to set the stage. We'll have a break. Then we will begin the
discussion on strategic priorities for 2020.
To put it in context, if you look at the poster board in the back there, our job on March the 2nd is
to fill in the box on the right that says 2020. We set the 2019 strategic priorities last year at the
Board retreat. Now, looking forward to next year, we will fill in that box with strategic priorities.
And the way we do that is we have-- if you want to be real fancy, you can call them "charrettes".
But we have small groups that will get together and brainstorm, discuss, share ideas, share
information. And there will be Directors divided up into groups with senior leadership team
members assigned to each group, so that we have this cross-fertilization of the governance
people and the operational people.
That will be, then, followed by each group presenting to the full group. So each of the-- and I
think we typically have five groups, as I recall. Is that-BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, if we do it by buckets, we'll have four this year.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so maybe we'll have four or five groups. And they will then present to
the whole group. And the facilitators will help us go through the various ideas we've talked
about, much as we did at the Board-only retreat on February 2, and come up with some
approaches and ideas. And they, as facilitators, will help guide us to the point where we can start
filling in that box on the right-- the 2020 box.
We'll then have a lunch break, because last year, we got this all done in the morning. We then
have a half hour lunch break. Then we come back for a recap and a final confirmation. So we
say, OK, we've had some time to think about it and a chance to get a break. Are we agreed these
are the priorities for 2020? And we get a final sign-off.
That is followed by-- and this is the new part-- an absolutely unscripted, unstructured, open
forum for Directors. It is at that time-- and that will probably be-- well, it depends upon how long
everyone wants to go. We would like to budget you to no more than five or six minutes. If
everybody does that, we've got an hour that we're going to end up talking about things.
But we've budgeted about an hour, so that it's the opportunity where whatever is on your mind-and it's not restricted to the construction of the strategic priorities. It is literally whatever is on
your mind. It's an open forum. It's a chance for you, as a Director, to speak to the entire group
and share whatever it is you choose to share. We hope it will be within the realm of decency and
common civility and all that. But the point is it's an open forum.
Then we just have basically a 10-minute wrap up to say, OK, what are the next steps? How do
we do this? And then we're done. So that is the agenda. As you've heard, it's essentially the same
as last year, and for that matter, years before, but with the addition of this open forum at the end

to ensure that no Director will leave that room saying, well, I really wanted to talk about X. And
we never said anything about X. No excuses-- you get to talk about X.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The only thing that is going through my mind right now is that I
think that's great. But I think they're going to want to leave knowing that it was documented and
that something is going to be done.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, it will be.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: For one thing, it's going to be recorded. We're obligated. So it will be
recorded. The public is invited. The public can be there. Absolutely-- no, it will be documented.
Yeah. It's not a black hole. That's for sure. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I'm sorry. So are you going to describe the process as well as send out the
agenda? I was thinking about how we kind of wrestled the agenda away from-- and to avoid that,
I wondered if we couldn't send out the process plus the agenda to allow some comment.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, yeah. We will send this. And then we're also going to send out-probably not until tomorrow or Tuesday-- the actual summary of the February retreat, so that the
Directors will have. That's just going out to the Directors. That's not something we publish. This
we publish, by virtue of it being part of the official Board packet. I probably will do a cover
memo that essentially summarizes more briefly what I've just stated to you guys.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I think that's pretty important, so that people get a sense for how the
priorities are identified. And I wasn't even clear on that, because it comes out of the small group.
And then you have a report. Is somebody recording that? And then how do you identify which
are the priorities?
DOUG TISDALE: Consensus-- we build by consensus, because the Directors, at some point, for
example-- and it will be up to the facilitators how they want to do this. What we have sometimes
done is have these sheets up on the wall. And the Directors will go out. And you'll be told, you
know what? You can make three check marks. Checkmark three things. Out of all these things
that you see, checkmark three of them, or put three check marks on one, should you choose.
And then when we get together as a group and have that further discussion, we look around and
see what has weight, what has traction. And then we have discussion. And then, by consensus,
we identify the priorities that will fit into that 2020 box.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We also will be coming in with the raw data that came out of the
Board-only retreat, as well as, as requested by the Board, four buckets that were identified that
each of those items fall into. So hopefully, that will be a starting point, or not. But we wanted to
bring that forward, because we want to make sure everybody feels that they were heard.

SHELLEY COOK: So will they have that ahead of time, because I-DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's what we're going to be sending out later.
SHELLEY COOK: I took photos. And I didn't see affordability. And I think three or four of us,
at least, represented or mentioned that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I didn't see it either.
SHELLEY COOK: So just as long as we have a time ahead of time to review it and
[INAUDIBLE].
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, so the agenda will go out today. And by the end of the week,
we'll send the rest of the documents out-- the cumulative-- the raw data with the numbers of
check marks next to them, and then the buckets that were identified, and all of the items that sit
in that bucket from the raw data.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: And those are merely the efforts by the facilitators to say, we think this is
kind of where the buckets are. And we gave them some insights of our own. Specifically, Ms.
McManus, Mr. Genova, and I shared information with them. But they were the ones who created
these buckets and said, this is where we kind of see things. That does not constrain the Board. It's
a suggestion.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And a reminder of the work you already did.
DOUG TISDALE: We make the decisions. But people help us in that process by facilitating the
processing of information. So that's the story on the retreat. Yes, sir, Director?
JEFF WALKER: Director Rivera-Malpiede had a second point-- documented and action.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
JEFF WALKER: If action is taken on it, that's going to depend on what's requested.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
JEFF WALKER: Right, so that needs to be understood, that just because it's heard doesn't mean
it can be implemented.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's correct.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah And I know you know that.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. No, I know.
JEFF WALKER: But some people-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I wanted to point out-SHELLEY COOK: [INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: Now, that's something that's worthy of repeating for the benefit of the public
that might be there as well. An open forum is just that. It's a forum. It's where ideas are posed,
recorded, shared, and perhaps even commented on by others, when it's their turn to speak. It is
not a dictate of action. It is an expression of concerns, questions, approaches, proposed policies,
et cetera, which then the Board can determine, how do we want to react to each one? Staff may
say as to some of them, actually, we're already doing that. Didn't we tell you? Sorry. OK. I mean,
that often happens as to a lot of things.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Understood, Chair. What I'm saying is if we could just say that
at the beginning, so it's very clear of what the expectations might be from members of the Board.
That was my point.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that, because I'm making my notes right now on how to do that
for the group on the 2nd. And I will make sure that I address that specifically. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: One other thing that I've told Board members in the past, before our March
advance, is that if there's an issue or an item that they feel really passionately about, that they
should contact other Board members and see how they feel, because that might help shape,
guide-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I agree.
JEFF WALKER: --their expression of that during the dialogue. And it might also help them get
support. Or maybe they'll see another angle, where they realize it's not as important. But anyway,
early outreach I recommend. And I tell that to other Board members who have something that's
burning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I think it's actually productive. I do too.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, that's very worthwhile. And I appreciate those insights. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: So not to bring it back up, but we had talked about whether it was a 2019
into 2020 issue. I don't know if you all have thoughts in case it comes up again, because I'm
feeling like, if we're setting goals that relate to a year from now, that's hard for me. I want to be
able to do some things first. But it's also a management process. How do you reconcile those
things? So if you have any thoughts about that, that would be helpful, too.

One question that came up to me in talking about the retreat is it's a consensus. Who is forming
the consensus? I mean, the people around the table-- is it like half Director, half staff, and you
sort of massage the items that you want to elevate as priorities, and then that's discussed as a
group as a whole?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, that's a very good question. The Directors make the decision. The
Directors select the priorities. The Directors will express their preferences-- these check marks,
however they choose to do it-- in terms of demonstrating the support for a particular proposition.
Staff is there to help, and to inform, and to provide comments and observations. They are not
there to make those selections. They can offer ideas.
They can also tell you, if you say, I would like to have all of our fleet be autonomous and
electrically powered by December, they will feel free to say, we cannot do that. It is impossible
to do that. We understand what you're saying. What we are doing is looking-- and then respond
to it. So they're there as a resource.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, good.
DOUG TISDALE: And it does help, because you make a point. Director Rivera-Malpiede, you
tell me, when you went through the Board SLT process when you were here previously, is what
we're describing now really very different from that process?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. It really isn't. I mean, we met together. We all identified
charrettes, what were important. And then we developed a strategic plan of goals and objectives
off of that. The thing that's different was the Board retreat.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, and that's something that we do like. And it gave us the opportunity to
do some of the homework on this. And there were some people who say, well, we should have
spent more time on it. Say, well, recognize we don't want to completely do that without the
benefit of having staff with us, because without the benefit of staff, we could come up with we
want not only autonomous vehicles, electrified, we want them to be flying vehicles. And we
want that by December. So that's why we need to have staff work with us.
SHELLEY COOK: And I actually value thoughts they have, too, about goal setting. I don't want
not to get that. I think that you have a perspective that is better informed than [INAUDIBLE].
DOUG TISDALE: And I will go through-- at the beginning, in my opening remarks-- what
you've asked for in terms of an explanation of why 2020 goals? We're still in 2019. How does
this all work? And I've got, essentially, a presentation that I've done before that I can use to put
that in context, because that is important.
All right, so there is the discussion of the retreat.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chairman?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. [INAUDIBLE] of General Manager.

DAVE GENOVA: Just one of the comments you made, Director Cook, on things that you're
eager about in 2019-- I would just suggest, let's get together. And you can share those ideas with
me that you feel are more of a sense of urgency, that you'd like to have some discussion around
'19. And then we can-- and then I can show you what all the detail of the current strategic
priorities are for '19. And I would almost imagine that a lot might already fit into what we're
working on. But we could walk through that. And I would offer that to any Director that wanted
to do that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, I did send the full list of all the 2019 goals to-DAVE GENOVA: Including the build out?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Yes.
DAVE GENOVA: OK, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, it was about the idea of setting direction as a Board, though, as a much
more potent move. So that had come up. And I thought several people had agreed with it. But it
may also be you have constraints in terms of the budget. Claudia Folska brought up the issue of
the General Manager oversight and so forth. So I recognize that, too. But it may not just be-- I
will get a sense of the Board as a whole that they want to wait for setting new priorities.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. Director?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I just want to add on that, because half the Board is new. I think
this year might be a little bit different in people wanting to make sure that their voice is heard.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I think that's always a good idea, just to do some outreach
and say, I'm willing to meet with anyone to look at a pressing issue in 2019.
DOUG TISDALE: And that is part of the reason behind this open forum at the end, to say, OK,
show's not over once we fill in the box on the right there, that says 2020. Now, speak your piece.
Ask any questions. Go from there. They will all be recorded. And they will all be addressed as
time goes by. But we absolutely want to hear that, so that no one walks out of that room saying, I
didn't get a chance to say my piece. That's not going to happen.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, next, the G Line-- just to share with you that we continue to get really
positive support from the FRA. And I know that Mr. Genova will speak on that a little bit more
in his report here. And I won't waste too much time of my efforts to try to summarize that stuff. I
will tell you that we can continue to tell people, yes, soon, very soon. We're close, very close. So
stay with us on that.

And I want you to know that I had a very long and extended dinner with David Parker last night.
David is the new Chairman of the Board of Denver Transit Partners, having taken over from
David Rushton. They like to make it easy, because that way, you don't have to learn a new first
name. You know, it's just David. But very, very much committed, as we would hope and as we
expected, to collaborating with us in every conceivable way to cooperate in the very soon
opening of the G Line. So that I leave with you.
I also, just for the sake of the record so you know, Director Lubow and I are working on a
resolution that she was prompted by the Governor's office-- when Director Lubow and Director
Guissinger were in a meeting with the Governor along with other elected officials from the
Northwest area, talking about Northwest transportation issues-- to present to this Board a
resolution regarding the Peak Rail Plan, which as you know, is the plan to use the Burlington
Northern freight lines for running a limited number of trains during peak hours back and forth to
Boulder and Longmont. And we're working on doing that.
Those are the informational items I wanted to make sure that I shared with you and gave you a
chance to ask questions. After the General Manager's report, again, time permitting, open forum.
And we'll have you ask whatever questions you want. But let me now turn it over to General
Manager Genova.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a couple of quick items, hopefully, regarding the
progress on the G Line, just so the Executive Committee understands where we are. We continue
to work through the two regulatory processes, that being the FRA-- Federal Railroad
Administration-- and the Public Utilities Commission (PUC). Regarding the Public Utilities
Commission, the staff for the PUC has been out and verified all of our crossing timing. And we
have filed final certification paperwork on three crossings.
SHELLEY COOK: I know Lowell and Tennyson. What besides-DAVE GENOVA: 60th. So Lowell, Tennyson, and 60th.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, yeah. [INAUDIBLE].
DAVE GENOVA: So I just signed 60th earlier. So those three crossings have been submitted.
There's a two-week comment period built into the Utilities Commission process before they'll
take it up on the docket. So the soonest that I would envision those would appear on the
Commissioner's docket would probably be about three, maybe four weeks from now.
Then once they get through the docket, then there's the time period that it would take for them to
deliver the written orders. And that's always-- we don't know the frame on how long it will take
them to get the written orders. There's no real parameters around that like there are in the rest of
their process.
So but we do anticipate, though, that since everything's very similar to the University of
Colorado A line crossings that went through, and the B Line-- or no. Sorry. The B Line crossing
didn't go through that because it's not a public crossing. But it's very similar to that process. So

we expect that the orders would be fairly timely because they would be, we're anticipating, very
similar in nature.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Can I ask a quick question? So you've filed three. Are the others in
preparation? I wasn't clear on-DAVE GENOVA: The other 12-SHELLEY COOK: [INAUDIBLE]
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, the reason they're not filed is because of the timing on the freight
warning time. The freight warning time is measurements. The PUC expressed that they were a
little bit longer than what their designed warning time is. Now, this isn't due to the RTD system.
They operate on a different system, in the conventional system that they've always operated on.
So we're working with the Commission on that to try to advance our crossings through the
process.
SHELLEY COOK: So that'd be 15. Then the 16th-- is that Tabor or something?
DAVE GENOVA: The 16th is probably not a public crossing that needs to go through the
Utilities Commission.
SHELLEY COOK: Ah, OK. I got it.
DAVE GENOVA: And so if we can get the Commission to agree just to go forward on the
verification of our crossings, that's what we're hoping to do, and get all of the remainder filed.
They're ready to file. The staff has their paperwork ready to go, other than whatever changes they
may have to make to accommodate what they've observed for the freight. And then once those
are filed, then we just file a very simple one-page certification.
And then those will go through the same process. And that is what is left with the Public Utilities
Commission. So right now, what it hinges on is how quickly they'll move through the process
and how quickly we can work through the Burlington Northern crossing timing piece.
And then on the Federal Railroad Administration-- I think the Board is familiar-- we were
successful in getting the G Line added to the operational waiver for the University of Colorado A
Line and B Line. And then we received revenue service demonstration under the PTC-- Positive
Train Control-- rules for the G line. So huge milestones in getting those obtained.
We've got the quiet zones. They are going to be established on March 1st on the University of
Colorado A Line. And it's important that there's a distinction. It'll be at the beginning of our
service day. So the first few trains after midnight are still part of the service day before. And then
DTP (Denver Transit Partners) obviously has things they have to get done out in the field. So
they need that time frame between our last train at the end of the service day and the first train.
So after midnight on the 1st, they'll still be regular practice. But then beginning with our service
day on March 1, [INAUDIBLE] on those crossings and the nine crossings in Denver. On the--

DOUG TISDALE: So be prepared for some social media protests, in other words.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, and we-DOUG TISDALE: Somebody recording it at 12:05.
DAVE GENOVA: Somebody will say, it's March 1, and I'm still hearing-SHELLEY COOK: [INAUDIBLE]
DAVE GENOVA: --your horn. So we'll have a lot of information going out about that. But I
want to be clear on that.
So then the remaining approvals that we need from the Federal Railroad Administration for the
G Line opening are the quiet zones in Arvada and Wheat Ridge, which were grouped together
and under one waiver for constant warning time, and then Adams County. And so where we
stand with those then, the waiver request for Arvada and Wheat Ridge was noticed in the Federal
Register. That comment period is closed. And we understand FRA is working on their response.
And we should have that-- I'm going to say shortly, although I can't define whether that's a
matter of days or a couple of weeks.
And then the Adams County, though, we did not get that back at the same time from Adams
County with their approval on that. We didn't submit it at the same time as Wheat Ridge and
Arvada, so it just got noticed in the Federal Register on Monday. So its 45-day comment period
closes on March 28th. So we're trying to work with the FRA to see if there's things we can do in
parallel, to see if they could-- because we already have that same waiver on the University of
Colorado A Line. And we'll have it for Wheat Ridge and Arvada. We're hoping that they might
be able to issue it in advance of the comment period with some conditions representing closing
of the period or other considerations.
Our next meeting with the Federal Railroad Administration headquarters is next Thursday
morning. So I'll be out there with Henry and a couple of people from the DTP team. And we'll be
talking through some of those things. And then of course, once we get those waivers, then there's
the notice of the establishment and the 21-day period. Again, we're trying to work those in
cooperation with the FRA to where we can file those with an effective date as close as what we
think we will receive the waiver. So again, there's not a sequential, here's your waiver. And
here's another 21 days.
So we're trying to work with them to see if their processes allow for any overlap in those timings.
So those are the kinds of things we're working through with them. Those are the major
milestones that remain, assuming nothing else comes up operationally or anything. I'm happy to
answer any questions about that.
SHELLEY COOK: Bells-- I'm starting to hear bells. I mean, I'm hearing about the bells. Some of
the quiet zones are bell-silent. The bells as well as the horns go silent. [INAUDIBLE] through
Arvada is. So the question is, can that be a modification? Whose jurisdiction is that? How is that

decided on, any of that? And it just happened that Liz Telford chimed in on a Facebook post to
indicate that it was something that could happen, and that it probably had to be quote, "attacked
in a different venue." So I don't know what that means.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, it's probably both a PUC and FRA item, because any change to the
crossing has to go through the Public Utilities Commission. And so after it's approved, if we
change anything of the operation, the warning time, the signage-- anything that's changed
physically out there has to go through an amendment with the Public Utilities Commission.
SHELLEY COOK: Including the quiet zone piece? I mean, what is included?
DAVE GENOVA: Not the quiet zone piece, but since the bells are part of the equipment that is
out there, and that wasn't anticipated as taking off-- and in my knowledge, that's very unusual.
From what I hear about most quiet zones, it's typically just the horn, not the bells. And I'm not
familiar with those particular crossings. I wonder if they were bell-equipped, if they are bellequipped. So I'll have to-SHELLEY COOK: They were to begin with. But I don't know if when they modified them-DAVE GENOVA: I'll have to ask around.
SHELLEY COOK: [INAUDIBLE]
DAVE GENOVA: But we weren't anticipating not having the bells at the crossings. But it's a
question I can ask. Anything else on G or A?
SHELLEY COOK: I'm going to get with you afterwards, because I didn't understand what you
were talking about with the quiet zones. So I just need to double check on that.
DAVE GENOVA: OK, and I'm available if you have time afterward.
SHELLEY COOK: Great. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: I do want to mention-- just on the Northwest Peak Service on the Northwest
Rail-- we have a meeting with the US 36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition tomorrow
morning at 7:30 in the Louisville library. And we have a pretty good agenda for that meeting.
We're going to talk about-- introduce Pauletta [Tonilas, Assistant General Manager of
Communications]. We've got a variety of RTD updates, the BRT (Bus Rapid Transit) study, T2
(Transportation Transformation) comprehensive plan, Northwest area investments. We're going
to recap all the investments we've made in the Northwest area.
We're going to talk about our support of the various TIP (Transportation Improvement Program)
subregional projects, including there's five projects where we're actually going to participate on
the local match. And those are around the district. One's in Boulder. One's in Louisville. One's in
Thornton, Adams County, and Westminster. And so they're kind of spread around. One's Denver.
And one is Aurora. So we're going to kind of recap how we're supporting those, both from a

local match, and then the ones that we're not able to do local match on, we're also doing letters of
support. So we can recap those. And then we're going to talk about the peak service exploration.
But I wanted the Executive [INAUDIBLE]-PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me, Dave. Do you have a list of all those as far as the sub-region
ones?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, we can provide that. Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: That would be great, because I know it came up at a Jeffco (Jefferson
County) meeting. So that must be one that-- is there a project?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, I do remember discussing it. And we will make that list available. I just
am unsure whether I'll have that final list available by tomorrow, that I can put out in my weekly
memo or not. But we'll definitely get it out to all the Board members, so you know what the
projects are, which ones we're doing letters of support, and which ones we're actually-PEGGY CATLIN: Doing the match? OK.
DAVE GENOVA: [INAUDIBLE] a local match on.
PEGGY CATLIN: That would be helpful.
DAVE GENOVA: And we didn't have much funding to really-- we actually had not planned any
funding for local match. But what we did was sit through the projects. And we tried to prioritize
based on whether they would have immediate transit impact or other kinds of things. And if the
impacts looked like they were way down the road, or they were typically just studies, then we
said, we could be supportive of those but not local match. So we really tried to prioritize those
projects.
We did receive a couple of pieces of information from the US 36 group on the commitment for
the Peak Rail Service. And then we'll share these. I just received them, I believe, yesterday. And
so we're still kind of reading through them. But it's a commitment to the Northwest Rail from the
US 36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition. So I would envision that a lot of discussion at the
meeting tomorrow morning will be about Northwest Rail and the Peak Service. We'll also do an
update on State Highway 119.
And then of course, it's a full agenda for us to get through all that in an hour and a half. We'll be
packed. But we have-- the reason I went through the agenda is I just wanted the Executive
Committee to know the scope of the things that we're going to be discussing with them
tomorrow. Of course, then everybody is welcome to attend.
DOUG TISDALE: And let me just footnote that, if I may. The point is it's the continuing
communication with all of the electeds and other representatives and stakeholders in the
Northwest corridor and on the northern half of our system, so that they understand we are
absolutely, totally focused on this and making sure that as we conclude the G Line and conclude

the N Line, that we know that we are working on, what are the solutions? And the Peak Rail is
one interim solution-- Peak Rail Service.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do have a question.
PEGGY CATLIN: You first.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any update on the 41st and Fox stop for the B Line?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, so actually, the two stations that the B Line currently does not stop on,
that are actually part of the G line-- formally, the construction of them and the operation and
design of them is part of the G Line. When we open the G Line, the B Line will stop at both of
those intermediate stations.
SHELLEY COOK: Yay.
DAVE GENOVA: And that is reflected in the May service changes in terms-- because I just
checked with service planning, because that will change the schedule for the B Line a little bit,
stopping at those two stations-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: --will add a minute or so to that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm trying to contain my excitement.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Cook says, yay. There are other people who will say, wait a minute.
You mean you're taking my express train, and now you're turning it into a local?
SHELLY COOK: I understand that Westminster prepared messaging around it, but is prepared to
help [INAUDIBLE].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: They did.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
DAVE GENOVA: And also, yes, we're in communication with them [INAUDIBLE] as well,
because that was a big issue the last time we were trying to work through this. But the rationale
behind that was there's operating issues around that. And then there was also the original
construction and certification of those two stations, which was contractually part of the G Line.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Vice-Chair?

PEGGY CATLIN: I was listening in-- but I didn't take my phone off mute because it was way
too noisy-- when you were talking about working with Director Lubow on the resolution-DOUG TISDALE: Resolution.
PEGGY CATLIN: --for the Peak Rail Service. Is that language finalized?
DOUG TISDALE: No, no, no, no, no, no. This is an iterative process.
PEGGY CATLIN: I had some comments that maybe we can talk about later.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, and we are more than happy to have other Directors chime in, because
Director Lubow came up with the idea. I gave her the benefit of some thinking that we had two
years ago when we were looking at just a restated commitment for the completion of the
unfinished corridors. Now we're adding this comment relative to Peak Rail, which was generated
by an inquiry from the Governor's office, saying, well, if the Board gave us a resolution, we'd
have a lot more to work with.
And so it's going through an iterative process. I'll be happy to share with you her latest draft. And
then she and I are going to try to talk sometime over the weekend.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I had seen a draft earlier.
DOUG TISDALE: It's not going to come before this Board probably until March. But we hope
that it will come forward in March, so that we can present something back to the Governor's
office.
PEGGY CATLIN: Good.
SHELLEY COOK: Would you send that to me too?
PEGGY CATLIN: Hmm?
SHELLEY COOK: Would you send that to us so we can-PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, anything further?
DAVE GENOVA: No, I'm good, Mr. Chairman.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, thank you. Now anything else? Now it's open for any other matters.
Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Chair. I would like to respectfully request perhaps that
anyone who Chairs or is a Vice Chair of a Committee go through an in-depth parliamentary

procedure training. I think that it's really imperative as elected officials, when we're holding a
meeting where the public is present in our staff, that when we are presenting and going through
proposed legislation, that we really need to know what the protocol process is.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's an excellent thought that has been shared with me by several
Directors in the past couple of days. And for no particular reason, but the timing is that it's been
shared now. And I think it would be very beneficial. So yes, I'm going to work with our General
Counsel-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: --because I think he will be a good part of that to facilitate some. And we
might do it as a group thing, or we might just do a one-on-one thing. But yes, I think it would be
very helpful.
[PHONE ALERT]
If it's for me, I'm not here. Take a message.
[LAUGHTER]
But it would be very helpful, I think, to do that. So I thank you for your thought. And yes, we
already have it on the agenda to go forward with that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Others-- anything at all?
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize-DOUG TISDALE: Don't feel you have to make up something. I'm just saying, if you have
something.
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize for my dilemma this morning, coming from the E 470 Board
meeting. I went to fill up with gas. And then my car wouldn't start. So thank goodness for the
transit app and my ability to access the A Line. That being said, Director Cook mentioned
something about revisiting the 2019 goals to see where we were maybe in order to start setting
2020 goals. And I concur with what she mentioned in terms of the agenda for the SLT Board
retreat.
DOUG TISDALE: And let me react to that a little bit.
PEGGY CATLIN: But I couldn't hear-DOUG TISDALE: No, I know.

PEGGY CATLIN: It was really hard to hear. So I wasn't really sure what-DOUG TISDALE: And as I say, I'll set the stage a little bit at the beginning. But a lot of what
General Manager will be doing in the half hour-- and it could be 45 minutes all told, when we're
done-- but a lot of what we're doing when he's addressing successes, challenges, and
opportunities moving forward, is to give us a look back and say, this is what we said we wanted
to do in 2019. We are doing it. Here is how.
PEGGY CATLIN: So that sets the context for it. OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, it really is in there.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just think that's important.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah we don't articulate all these things. And sometimes people say, Mr.
Chairman, you go on a little long. And my problem is sometimes I strive to be brief, and I
become obscure. So I need sometimes to expand.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I just was hearing that and concurring. But you couldn't see my head
nodding.
DOUG TISDALE: Mm-hmm. Oh, we heard something on the phone. I mean-PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I can tell you, the trains and the horns do work.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: You would not have appreciated that.
DOUG TISDALE: We love that, yes. Anything else that any member of the Executive
Committee would choose to share with us at this time? Ms. McManus, anything else from the
Board Staff of which we should be aware at this time?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
DOUG TISDALE: And last call, General Manager. Anything else?
DAVE GENOVA: No, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. We appreciate your
participation and cooperation as of 12:56 PM, Mountain Standard Time, Valentine's Day, we
stand--

