Jan 17 2019
Executive Committee
[GAVEL BANGING]
DOUG TISDALE: For the sake of the record, we are convened here in the Board Conference room
at the RTD headquarters for the January 17, 2019 Executive Committee meeting. And I'll note for
the sake of the record that the First Vice Chair is not presently connected with us via phone. We
anticipate that she may be later.
Second Vice Chair, Angie Rivera-Malpiede, is here. Our Secretary, Jeff Walker, is here. And our
Treasurer, Shelley Cook, is here. In addition, we have in the room Mike Meader, Assistant General
Manager for Safety and Security, who is substituting in for General Manager Genova, who is
currently on a plane en route back from Washington. And also, Director Barbara McManus-- I'm
sorry, Executive Manager of the Board Barbara McManus.
And then we have on the telephone-- of which we are aware-- Director Natalie Menten. Director
Menten, are you still with us?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I am.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And I paused because I know you probably have it on mute, and
we appreciate that. Are there any other directors or any others on the telephone at this time?
There are none.
So, having established that we have a quorum and that we are proceeding pursuant to our agenda,
let me first express on behalf of myself and on behalf of the agency, condolences to Secretary
Walker-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We're so sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: --for the loss of his brother, which is always a challenging thing to do. And we
appreciate your taking time out of your normal grieving process to be able to share yourself with
us here. So we appreciate that.
Also, for the sake of the record-- and that's why I was particularly hoping that Vice Chair Catlin
would be available-- we want to extend congratulations to Vice Chair for being able to join General
Manager Genova and others for a meeting this morning with Bob Lauby, who's the Administrator
in charge of safety for the US Department of Transportation's Federal Railroad Administration in
DC.
It went, as I am told briefly in a communication from General Manager, very well. So we're very
pleased about that. And we anticipate that we'll have more information available to us this

afternoon. I'm sorry that we don't have it right now. But we will have more information to that
effect soon.
So the first item of business on our agenda is the review of the January Board meeting agenda for
our January 29th Board meeting. And the question is whether there are any changes, comments,
suggestions that any member of the Executive Committee has relative to the draft Board meeting
agenda, which is submitted here to you. You will note that we have only one action item presented,
and that's a unanimous consent item related to the MCCi laserfiche contract that was discussed just
this last Tuesday.
So in the first instance, are there any comments, questions, issues that any member of the Executive
Committee has relative to the draft agenda?
Hearing none, let me ask if there are any Directors, and specifically Director Menten, since you're
the only one on the telephone who is, at least, identified, do you have any questions relative to the
draft Board meeting agenda for the January 29 meeting?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. So it would appear-- and Ms. McManus, let me ask you.
Are you aware of any changes, corrections that should be made to this agenda at this time?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. I'd just like to add that we do have three attendees for the retiree
awards that will be here.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. So we expect to three out of this group of-- what is it-- nine people-- that
we will have three of them present, correct? OK.
Just because we did get a little blindsided on a committee meeting, at least-- is anyone aware of
any person or group that's going to be here for the public participation portion of the meetings?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am not.
DOUG TISDALE: That said, may I have a motion, please, to approve-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
--the Board meeting agenda? I have a motion from Second Vice Chair. Is there a second-SHELLEY COOK: Seconded.
DOUG TISDALE: --to the motion? I have a second from the Treasurer. Is there any discussion on
that motion to approve the agenda?
Hearing none, all those in favor, please indicate by saying aye.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Aye.
SHELLEY COOK: Aye.
JEFF WALKER: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. The agenda
will be published and distributed.
We turn, then, to other matters. I have three things that I need to go over with you. And some of
this is particularly because we have some new members of the Executive Committee who are
bringing some things to your attention.
The first of these relates to the Committee Charters and the Board Operating Guidelines. There are
available for you-- if you haven't picked up, please do-- copies of the draft proposed revised
Committee Charters that are submitted for everyone's consideration. These have been circulated
at least twice before already, as of this date. And we're going to circulate them again with a view
for taking action in February, giving everyone-- and particularly the members who are newly
elected to the board-- the opportunity to review them.
They were not intended in any way, shape, or form to be a substantive revision of the Committee
Charters. It was an exercise that Board office staff initiated to render the Committee Charters
consistent across the board. There were a lot of variances that had worked their way into the
charters over time. And in addition to that, we have some improved administrator processes that
apply to the committee meetings that are now incorporated in here that were not in the earlier
Committee Charter.
So it is, in essence-- not exclusively, but in essence-- intended as a clean up process. And we have
provided you with some red lines so you can see-- and if you will look, you will see that the
changes essentially track identically across each of the Committee Charters here presented. So that
is, more or less, an information item to the Executive Committee, to make you aware that we are
going to be carrying these forward in February. And it's going to be broadcast again so that people
have yet another chance to review and consider these.
And just for the sake of this record, I do want to note that the newly elected Board members were
also sent these materials prior to their swearing-in so that they had a chance to review these. But
nonetheless, we have, more or less, another month to look at this and consider.
And in conjunction there with, we also have the amended Board Operating Guidelines. Once again,
these are not intended to be any significant, substantive change.
The important element to point out is that we were required, pursuant to a state audit done a number
of years ago, to establish Board Operating Guidelines. Prior to that point, we did not have a formal
document relative to Board Operating Guidelines. There were many things that were established
by custom and practice, but not confirmed in writing. The State Auditor noted that was not a best
practice and that it was appropriate for us to do that.

When the Board determined that it would adopt those Board Operating Guidelines, it also included
a promise that the Board would review these annually. Alas, that has been more honored in the
breach than in the observance. So the Board has not reviewed these annually.
So these Board Operating Guidelines, as the charters that we just discussed, have also been
circulated twice before, have also been circulated to the newly elected members following their
election and before their swearing-in, and also will be available for review and comment for
another month prior to taking action in February. The undertaking that we have pursuant to the
state audit was to do this in January, but we have pushed it to February in order to give everyone
ample time.
So that sets the table relative to charter revisions and the Board Operating Guidelines. And we
open it up now for any questions, comments, concerns associated with those two documents.
SHELLEY COOK: Well-DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm still new to this, so forgive me. Do we take action to put this on the agenda
for February? Is that an action today? So my concern is, I frankly haven't gone through them in
detail. And I don't want to convey-- I may want to go through them again because now we're
having a chance to actually see the action on the Board and so forth.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We don't take action today-SHELLEY COOK: Oh, good.
BARBARA MCMANUS: --on this.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. We don't even schedule for February today. We're merely
communicating to you the intention to take it forward in February.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, OK. Great.
DOUG TISDALE: The February Executive Committee meeting would approve the agenda that
would have these on them. That is the time that we take action to bring it to the full Board. It's
open for discussion. And this is part of that discussion, so you're welcome to weigh in now if you
have any concerns.
But we also understand you've been swamped with a great deal of paper in the last several weeks.
And so it's understandable that you may not have the opportunity to have had the opportunity to
review and comment. But we'd like to get people focused on it now, because we do want to take
action in February because we already are a month behind what we had established as a policy of
the Board to review and offer these each January.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Other questions, comments, concerns from a member of the Executive
Committee?
Director Menten, any comments, questions from you relative to the revised Committee Charters
and the amended Board Operating Guidelines that you have at this point?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Could you have staff, please, present with the actual documents that
the Legislative Audit Committee gave to us that relates to Board Operating Guidelines? And it
sounded like those were missing at some point. Now, I know the Legislative Audit Committee had
an issue with a former General Manager and our policies. But I honestly have not-- I don't think
I've heard before that the Legislative Committee was taking issues with our Board Operating
Guidelines.
DOUG TISDALE: I must have misspoken.
NATALIE MENTEN: Or could you recite it.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. And I must have misspoken. I apologize. I thought I said-- and I meant
to say, if I didn't-- that it was the State Auditor that said that we had to have the Board Operating
Guidelines in place. I don't believe I said-- and if I did, I apologize for misleading you-- I don't
believe I said it was the Legislative Committee that did it, but rather the state auditor.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh. My apologies, then. I usually think of the Legislative Audit Committee
directing those type of issues, just like our five-year audit. And their mechanism or liaison is the
State Auditor.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
NATALIE MENTEN: So that's where I would have jumped to that conclusion.
But either way, I would like that documentation.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. And I know that we looked at the audit just recently-- when I say
recently, within the past six months, when we began this process of assembling and reviewing the
Board Operating Guidelines for presentation as to amendments. So we have that. We'll certainly
circulate that to every member of the Board.
You will also recall, perhaps, that this was a point of discussion in our February retreat that we
had last year, when we talked about things such as rules of engagement and operating guidelines.
And we said that we would commence the process of reviewing those and trying to compile an
updated statement. So that was one of the conclusions that came out of the February 2018 Board
only retreat. That process commenced through the summer, into the fall. And then we presented
the draft.
But in the meanwhile, the additional documentation-- specifically, the state audit that referenced
that-- and then the Board policy that was adopted that said, yes, we would have Board Operating

Guidelines and that they would be reviewed and approved annually-- we'll provide that to the full
Board.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Then on to speaking about what would be included in the
documents provided to all of this Board-- I would respectfully request that you also include a copy
of CRS-- sorry. Sorry. CRS32-9-114, which defines the Board's administrative powers.
DOUG TISDALE: We certainly can make reference to that, and I don't see any problem with it
including a section of the statute. And I do understand some of the concerns you have relative to
the scope of the Board's authority. And we can make that a part of the overall discussion.
That's really not-- from my view, excuse me. From my view, that's not really directly relevant to
either the Board Operating Guidelines or the revised committee charters. I'm actually going to talk
more about that in just a moment on a third, other matter that I have to bring forward today. But
again, I have no problem, personally. It's the committee's pleasure, but I have no problem,
personally, in attaching the entire RTD Act to anything that we circulate. And that might be a good
idea.
You will note, you don't have the benefit, at this point, having it in front of you-- the Board resource
manual has been revised. Each member of the Executive Committee has a hard copy in front of
them. Tab 2 is the RTD Act. And specifically, section 32-9-114 is included therein and is found
on page 13 of tab 2.
So everybody already has that. And it might, in an effort to save trees, be better for us just to
reference that every Board reference-- resource manual has that tab. They can turn to tab 2, turn to
page 13, and see exactly the language that you're addressing.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, yeah. And the reason I think that is important is that in 32-9-114,
which is a fairly short piece of the state statute, with the state legislature has specifically addressed
administrative powers. And we are talking about Board Operating Guidelines. I think that's
important that those two pieces are together and easily referenced without somebody having to
dig.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. Well, I think we can do that. As I said, the administrative powers are
different than operating guidelines. And I think there might be some confusion there. I'd like to
make sure that I don't add to the confusion. Operating guidelines are, how do we process things?
Whether we have the authority to do it-- that's established by statute. How we do what we are
allowed to do is established by the operating guideline.
That said, no problem in specifically referencing the tab 2 of the resource manual and telling people
on page 13, please see Colorado Revised Statute, Section 32-9-114 regarding Board administrative
powers.
NATALIE MENTEN: Because especially, item D within that statute prescribes the system of the
business administration. And I have to state that with the Board Operating Guidelines and the edits
that have been put in there that state-- the Board, as drafted right now, states the Board shall only

deal-- in other words, tying our hands-- to high-level policy guide-- high-level policy, whereas
before, it said policy.
It brings questions into my mind as to why this document is necessary to tie our hands. And I know
this is the discussion that we've had before. And why is there the need to do that? And can you
give me an example of where it would creates enough concern to bind our hands?
Let me note, yesterday, I attended the Citizen's Advisory Committee meeting. And one of the
number one issues the Citizen's Advisory Committee would like to do is be able to chat to Board
Directors about policy. And I felt tempted to say to them, well, currently, we're allowed to discuss
policy. But very soon, it's possible we'll only be able to address high-level policy.
Who defines high-level policy? And then why is this needed?
DOUG TISDALE: OK. I think I understand the question. Let me ask of the other Executive
Committee members.
There is a concern that, have we-- inadvertently, perhaps-- in the Board Operating Guidelines,
somehow-- even though it's just operating guidelines and not substantive law or authority-- have
we somehow sought to limit our rights under substantive law and the authority that the legislature
vested in the RTD Board?
So that's what I hear as the question. And I think we can definitely include that as part of the
discussion when we go through the Board Operating Guidelines.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So another concern I have is further down in the document. And
I have more red line in here than the one you're looking at because of my edits-- is that it appears
to also limit or suggest that communications with our General Manager really should be going
through our Chair.
Again, I have concerns about why these stricter guidelines are necessary.
DOUG TISDALE: As to that particular-- actually, let me let Director Walker address that first.
JEFF WALKER: Can you-[CLEARING THROAT]
Excuse me. Can you be specific about where you're looking so I can follow along?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And I'm-DOUG TISDALE: At least give us a heading.

NATALIE MENTEN: I'm searching, because again, I have so much-- there we go. So it would be- I'm showing it as page five. But my lineup could be well different than yours, as I have strikes,
notes, strike outs, notes in my version. So-BARBARA MCMANUS: What section?
NATALIE MENTEN: --on my label-BARBARA MCMANUS: What section?
NATALIE MENTEN: --it starts-DOUG TISDALE: Yeah-NATALIE MENTEN: It is Steps to Enhance Board Effectiveness.
DOUG TISDALE: Say it again, please?
NATALIE MENTEN: Steps to Enhance Board Effectiveness.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What?
DOUG TISDALE: And which-BARBARA MCMANUS: Bottom of page one-DOUG TISDALE: --bullet under Steps to Enhance Board Effectiveness?
BARBARA MCMANUS: --and top of page two.
NATALIE MENTEN: The section starts with, "to utilize the Chair in his role as the first point of
contact in Board communications with the General Manager."
DOUG TISDALE: Right. And let me-- that's in the first bullet, regarding governance policy
setting. And it's the fourth bullet down. And it says, "to utilize the Chair in his role as designated
representative of the Board, he's the first point of contact." A couple observations.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm just going to read.
DOUG TISDALE: First of all, the Bylaws provide that. Our Bylaws as adopted provide that
language. Secondly, it's the first point of contact, not the sole point of contact. So just to make sure
it's clearly understood, there is nothing in here that would preclude Directors from communicating
with the General Manager.
But our Bylaws provide that the Chair is the first point of contact for communications between the
Board and the General Manager.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I might just add from my perspective that this makes total sense,
since the total Board votes in the Chairman of the Board to represent us in his role as the designated
representative of us to be the first point of contact. That makes total sense.
SHELLEY COOK: It doesn't mean that it's the only point of contact-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right.
SHELLEY COOK: -- it's sounding like.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right.
DOUG TISDALE: But that said, it's a point of discussion. And I think it's worthy to have people
express any concerns that they have so that we can address it. But I did just want to provide that
clarification for Director Menten at this time so that she'd know where it came from.
NATALIE MENTEN: And then going back to the question of, what generates-- I don't know that
this was a request from the Board to limit the rest of us. Where did this request generate from?
DOUG TISDALE: The Board Operating Guidelines-- and I apologize. I may not have made that
clear. The State Auditor required us to adopt Board Operating Guidelines. The Board then did, a
number of years ago, adopt Board Operating Guidelines. When the Board did that, the Board made
a representation that it would annually review and readopt-- reaffirm, if you will-- those Board
Operating Guidelines. That's what we are now doing.
We talked about this at the February 2018 Board-only retreat and said, we have to go ahead and
do that, and we should update them at the same time. That's where it came from. I'm sorry if I
didn't make that clear, because it's my fault.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I will review our discussion at the Board retreat to verify that as to
ongoing and-- right now, I've got, certainly, some concerns that what this is doing is tying the
hands of Directors.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate your expression of concern. And I think that can be discussed with
the full Board. Let me just, for your benefit, because I referenced that the language came from the
Bylaws-- let me just read to you from the Bylaws.
It's Article 7, section 5-- in part, reads, "the Chair is the first point of contact to the General
Manager on matters relating to the district's business, personnel matters, or in the execution of his
duties." And so on. So I just wanted you to know that it came from the Bylaws that we adopted.
And the bylaws are tab 3 in the Board Resource Manual.
NATALIE MENTEN: Right. I'll look at that.

DOUG TISDALE: Other questions? Let me just read here. Yes. Shelley.
SHELLEY COOK: So, thank you. I come at this from having served on both sides of that. I used
to be a member of the City Manager's Office in Aurora, [INAUDIBLE] there. And then I've been
a City Council member. So I understand that line between management and policy making. And
also, note that that line sometimes shifts depending upon current circumstances and stuff.
When I was seeking election and first elected, in light of the issues associated with the Eagle
project and other things, I reached out to a former professor and said, what's an appropriate role
for a Board member in a situation like this, where you have a special circumstance as some unusual
and important, critical issues may be coming to the fore? And had a nice exchange, including-- he
was willing and really helpful in sending through some articles about it.
The idea of oversight-- and I know that's-- you're making an important point. This is not-- the
bylaws are what operationalize, how we render those acts. But even such to the extent that this
stresses policy making and high-level strategic planning, I wonder if it isn't worth also including
some mention about the role of the Board and oversight.
And by that, he meant being able to ask the hard questions, being able to gain the access needed
to information in a circumstance like that-- engaging, as I know we already do through the
Oversight Committee, in more direct connections with what the General Manager is doing and so
forth.
So just thought, for the purposes of establishing that as a bona fide role, that we include some
mention of oversight dealings and function there.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think that's exactly why we want to make sure that the Directors have
another month to look at this, because then they can come up with things and say, it looks like you
haven't addressed this. We think you should. Or, it looks like-- as Director Menten has pointed-you address this in a certain way, and I don't agree with that. I'd like to see us do something else.
And then the Board has the right to do that. And then, understanding whatever constraints may be
imposed upon us by ourselves, pursuant to the Bylaws, or by law, pursuant to the RTD Act, we
take action accordingly. So I think that's a great idea.
Other thoughts, comments on charters and Board Operating Guidelines?
So again, this is more informational, but it is to bring us to the forefront of everyone's attention
again. And we're going to circulate it again to the entire Board and encourage everyone to read,
consider, ask questions-- and should they feel they'd like to see revisions, to propose revision
language that we can consider.
Second, other matter that I have-- Board and Board SLT retreats. Just to confirm to all of you,
we've begun the process with our facilitator, Susan Spero, reaching out to everyone. The Boardonly retreat will be Saturday, February 2. And then the Board SLT retreat will be Saturday, March
the 2.

The February 2 Board-only retreat we will do downstairs here in, I believe, conference room A.
And then the Board SLT retreat we will once again do at the Denver Athletic Club.
The agenda is being established now pursuant to the one-on-one conversations that Susan is
having-- Susan Spero, the facilitator-- is having with each board member to ensure that we
establish a construct that will allow everyone to express whatever concerns they have. And, for
example, some of Director Menten's comments directly flow into that. So that process is under
way at this time.
Please make sure those dates are on your calendar. As of right now, I believe we have heard that
everyone is available for both days. Is that correct? All right. So Ms. McManus indicates that's that
where we stand.
Are there any questions about the Board or the Board SLT retreats at this time? Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Tell when it is OK to ask.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Go ahead and ask.
NATALIE MENTEN: What is the estimated time for both meetings, whatever the time that we
expect to adjourn, roughly? I have other items I need to schedule, and just wondering if we know.
DOUG TISDALE: Currently, as I recall, we had scheduled from 8:00 until noon for the Boardonly retreat. Again, with the availability, should people want more time, then we might consider
that. But the scheduled time for the Board-only retreat is 8:00 until noon. And then for the Board
SLT retreat, I believe it's from 8:00 to 3:00. Or did we say 3:30? Do you recall, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I think 3:30.
DOUG TISDALE: So I believe it's 8:00 to 3:30 at the Denver Athletic Club on Saturday, March
2, 2019 for the Board SLT retreat.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Other questions about the Board-only or the Board SLT retreats?
Then the third item that I have, I do have to bring up. It's in our Board Resource Manual under tab
1. And it's something that I have been advised that I should remind the Board of, because
periodically, questions arise on this.
We adopted, as a Board, in 1986-- so what is that, 33 years ago? We adopted, as a Board, a policy
that we then ratified and reaffirmed in 2002 relative to Directors' utilization of staff time on
projects. And it's what is generally referred to as the four-hour rule. And I think we just need to
take a moment-- and we'll do this at the Board-only retreat, as well, I believe in very brief form.

But if you look at your tab 1 of your Board Resource Manual, the second item in there-- it's after
the green page-- is the Board member request which require-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What tab is it?
DOUG TISDALE: --more than four hours of staff time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, which tab?
DOUG TISDALE: And those-SHELLEY COOK: [SIDE CONVERSATION]
DOUG TISDALE: --the operatings and resolution, the resolution number 2 from series 1986 ended
under revision number-[SIREN]
And then resolution number 33 from the series 2002 has that four-hour rule that the Board has
imposed upon itself. The full Board, in acting and considering the questions, came up with that
limitation of, if there are tasks, absolutely every Board member may request staff assistance
through the Board office staff to help them in reviewing various projects and so forth. But without
receiving permission from the Chair or from the full Board, the limitation on that is four hours.
The reason for that-- if you think about it, multiply 4 times 15 and you come up with 60 hours,
which is a week and a half that staff would do out of every month just on Board projects, which
doesn't leave a lot of time to do their other, regularly assigned duties. And we're just bringing that
up because, again, much like the Board Operating Guidelines, some of these things we need to
elect reminding people of from time to time.
And so that will be reminded at the Board-only retreat. And I'm giving you that little heads up now
just to know about that.
So-- questions, comments, concerns relative to that? Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks for the reminder. I think it's important that we recognize that we can get
a lot of the information through online services. The state has a pretty much a full compendium of
everything that's passed the legislation going back decades. Our servers also contain all of the
documents that we pass. And we can sort by committee, sort by date, et cetera.
So in my view, there's very little that we need to ask staff to provide when so much of it's out there
already. So now's a good time for doing the other work that they need to do instead of catering to
us. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Other comments, questions from the Executive Committee members?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What's the exclusion regarding transportation service? I don't
know what that means.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So what you're looking at there is the Management Directive on the
staff side that gives them the guidelines of what they need to do if requests go directly to them
from Directors. So that statement right there is not part of what our resolutions are. It's on the staff
side.
I take that as being service planning, transportation, operations-- everything that falls into that,
which we do get reported on on a monthly basis. But if there's something outside of that, that
they're to provide us with that.
DOUG TISDALE: One example might be if they're going to cancel a bus route in your district,
they may not be able to get that answer done in four hours, but you know that it's going to be a big
item of concern for your constituents.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: So that's removed from that limitation. Our main task being providing
transportations. So that's a big part of it.
Director Menten, let me-- because I was asking the Executive Committee first, but you're on the
phone. Do you have any questions relative to that issue?
NATALIE MENTEN: Just, this issue is mainly generated because of the North Metro Line, in
bringing it up in the Executive Committee today?
DOUG TISDALE: No, the reason for bringing it up is that we have a new Executive Committee.
And we need to make sure that the new Executive Committee is aware of these constraints, as
well. And then in the Board-only retreat, we do have six members of the Board who have not had
the benefit of service and might have normal curiosity and want to have staff do things. And we've
just got to bring this to their attention now to make sure they're aware of it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Director Menten, this information is in your resource manual from
last year, as well. It has in on an ongoing basis.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yep. Thank you, Barbara. I am aware of that in there. I just specifically
wondered, especially relating to one of the Directors' comments the other night if this was
specifically being brought up because of that discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: No. No. That's the tail, and it doesn't wag the dog. Our main job is that we have
to orient the new Directors to the procedures that are in the book. And it's a daunting task, when
you look at this binder along with all the other binders that the new Directors have received, to see
what's important. And as I've said in the past, if you highlight everything, you've highlighted
nothing. If everything is a priority, nothing is a priority. So we do have to single out some things
from time to time just to make sure they're aware of it. But that's the rationale.

NATALIE MENTEN: Since I don't have-- think I've seen it-- the staff document, does it provide
a guideline-- I, frankly, usually don't-- not a big push for what they had-- the request to Jeffrey to
give me the reduction in service. And I don't come and-- "Jeffrey, you've got to have it to me
today."
But since I don't have it in front of me, what does it say in that management directive? Does it just
say reasonable amount of time? Or -DOUG TISDALE: It has things like that. And with all due respect, I'm really not going to burden
this record with reading the whole document now, because I think that's not very considerate of
the members' time here. I will point out it's there. And I am more than happy to have a separate
discussion with you and walk through that.
But you do have it. And we're more than happy to take whatever time you want to go through it. I
just don't want to burden the committee with that discussion right now.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: OK?
So those are the three other matters that I needed to bring forward. I will ask for other matters from
the Executive Committee members in just a moment. But I do want to defer to Mr. Meader, our
Assistant General Manager, because he is sitting here in the stead of Dave Genova, our General
Manager. And I know I gave you the opportunity, if you had any concerns over the agenda, to
comment on that. I want to know, what other issues, if any, would you like to bring forward on
Mr. Genova's behalf to the Executive Committee at this time?
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you, Chair. There's nothing that General Manager Genova asked
me to discuss, outside of the things I knew that were going to be discussed here today.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. Thank you. And we all do-- and I'm sure what happened was that
Director Catlin's travel times must have changed, and that's why she couldn't dial in. Because we're
all more than anxious to hear some personal feedback on the FRA meeting this morning.
But I will share with you, without feeling that I'm violating any confidences, the email that I
received from General Manager Genova early this morning sent at 10:28 this morning, Mountain
Standard Time. The General Manager informed me that, "we had a very good meeting with the
FRA today. It was great to have Director Catlin with us. And FRA acknowledged that, as well.
Good progress. I will leave you detail later-- at the airport now."
So I responded immediately when I got this and told him that that was excellent, and we were
delighted, that we did have the benefit of Vice Chair being present at that meeting, as well.
Now, to the Executive Committee, other matters that you would like to bring forward at this time?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We were looking at the committee assignments. I'm going to let
Director Cook talk to this, but I remember several years ago-- what is it-- 2012, where we had a
subcommittee that looked at fiscal sustainability. That was something that we were interested in
seeing if that could be a potential ad hoc committee again.
SHELLEY COOK: So last Saturday, I went to an event that was a legislative briefing at future,
and Senator Rachel Zenzinger and Representative Brianna Titone. And afterwards, Rachel said
that she's worried by the science that she's seeing in the Senate. I know you've had your fullthroated discussion with the Westminster people and so forth.
So one question is, what about-- or just something to discuss-- if there has been fiscal sustainability
and if, in fact, that's what people are hanging their hands on with regard to their concern about the
governance of the RTD District, we've been providing information in response-- for example, that
one impetus for the establishment of a elected Board was to be more responsive and to be more
accountable to citizens, and so forth.
One way to evidence that is to respond to these concerns about the fare structure-- the concerns
that the North area has about being able to complete fast tracks-- and to look at, in the vein that it
sounds like we did previously, that as an ad hoc effort.
So I thought it would be interesting to discuss it, at least. And Angie said that other people had
been involved. You had said people internally, staff members, it may-- and who else? You know
- It may
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So it was the committee that John chairs, Hope-- Umm-- he
chaired it. I know there were several-- there were maybe two or three Board members. There wereSHELLEY COOK: A lot of external-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, external experts and finances so it would be a fresh look at
the budget to make sure that we don't get so infused in our own work-- that we can get some
different perspective. I remember it being extraordinarily successful on all levels. The community
felt like they had transparency, input. And the Board felt like it gave them a clear plan of action
on how to move forward.
So I thought it was a win-win for everybody. When Dr. Cook had mentioned that to me, I thought,
oh, yeah, I remember that. And I thought it was really well done.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, and I think it's fair to say that fiscal sustainability remains one of our
strategic priorities each year when we go through that priority setting task at the March Board SLT
retreat. And I'm relatively certain it will come up again this year. And so we should continue to do
that.
And it might, in fact, make a very good statement to the legislature and the public relative to what
we're doing. It was interesting, for example, in preparation for my meeting with Mayor Atchison

and Councilor Saltzman yesterday, that Sherry Ellebracht, our Government Relations Officer, gave
me a nice list of talking points which included a number of comments on fiscal sustainability and
how we proceed and what we've done and so forth.
Some of that is in a relationship to communications, too. We've got to broadcast this information.
One way to do it may be exactly that. I will suggest that A, let's talk about this in some greater
detail on Saturday, February 2 at the Board-only retreat at least to set the table. I don't think we
can get into all the details. But we set the table and see if there's a hunger on the full Board to
follow that. I suspect there will be.
Then, B, when we are that the Board SLT retreat and we're talking through these things, that can
be one way that we talk about, how do we implement what we do? Because we set these strategic
priorities for the next year-- not for the year in which we set, but for the next year. But we also
have to talk about operationalizing them.
We give the General Manager the task of operationalizing all of that. It wouldn't hurt to give some
construct to how that can be operationalized. So I appreciate that.
Other matters? Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: So in that, could we also include looking at the structure of the Board so that it's
known that we're not interested in saving our own positions but looking out for the benefit of the
agency? So you think of the Supreme Court. How many times has the number of Supreme Court
members gone up and down over the 200 and some odd years-- 240 years this country has been
around? The way the Senate has chosen-- things change. And if these circumstances require a
different structure of the Board, so be it. We're just concerned about the agency. I'll be a bus rider
only again in two years, no matter what. So from my self-interest is, what's best for the agency,
not this position, not this body.
DOUG TISDALE: I will share with you that I think that's a very useful exercise because in the
discussions-- and I gave you all, through Ms. McManus, so it didn't constitute a communication
by me and therefore a violation of the open meetings law. I gave you all a brief summary of the
discussion with Herb and Ashley-- Mayor Atchison and Councillor Saltzman.
And it was interesting to me that whereas the Mayor was very focused on Governor appointment,
Governor appointment, Governor appointment, Councillor Saltzman, who apparently is a large
part of the energy behind this consideration, was focused more on size and agility of the Board
and said, I don't much care how they get there-- if they're appointed or elected. I understand the
accountability argument. As a councillor, I have to be very respectful of that. But I'm concerned
about the size. Is it too large-- and therefore, the agility is unable, really, to respond to things?
And that's something that perhaps could be addressed. You've opened that door. And I think that's
something that could be part of our discussion at the retreats.
JEFF WALKER: And I also question the accountability, because it takes four years for us to get
off the Board unless somebody wants to spend $100,000 to --for a recall on us.

DOUG TISDALE: [INAUDIBLE].
JEFF WALKER: Give or take. There are a couple board members in another agency of similar
size who were removed immedia-- well, one who was removed immediately, like the next week,
after a vote that went against the benefit of the agency-- at least as the people who appointed him
saw. That's accountability. That's action. It's a great expense and great time to get me off the board.
So I can sit back and do nothing to collect a paycheck.
SHELLEY COOK: So just bearing in mind that it's not within our purview to alter the structure
and so forth. And maybe we can talk about the pros and cons in terms of accountability or the other
issues, but I don't know how the legislature would feel about us making a-- maybe they would I
don't know.
JEFF WALKER: I think it would be-- I would think that if we're looking at ourselves and what's
best for the agency, I think that would come across as, these guys-- this body, these people-- aren't
protecting themselves. They're protecting the agency. That's how I would look at it. That's why I
brought it up.
DOUG TISDALE: Right here, we're having an interesting discussion. I think it might serve some
purpose in talking at the February retreat, really.
SHELLEY COOK: Why?
DOUG TISDALE: March retreat has a much more defined goal. And I'm going to ask, in fact-- if
it's OK-- if we could get another copy of the pyramid that we could leave in this room, too. Because
as I explained to the facilitators, last year, we did something different. We included those boxes-one on the left side and one on the right side-- and said, this was last year's strategic priority.
Now we have a blank box on the right side. Now we have to figure out what next year's strategic
priority will be. And it helps to see those together. And our job on March 2 will be to take the box
that says 2019, move it to the left, and then have a box that says 2020 on the right that's blank. And
it's up to us to fill in the box. So that's a much more specific task.
But I think the discussion on the 2nd-- I would like to hear more exposition on-- personally. I'm
not speaking in any capacity other than my personal-- I'd be interested.
So we have a note to that effect, that we can consider and perhaps share with Susan Spero, our
facilitator, just to let her know-- feel free, because you haven't had your calls yet. I think I was the
first one. I was at 10 o'clock this morning. When you speak with her, bring up these issues so that
she knows.
Other matters?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The only other thing that I'm hearing consistently is the concern
for the low-income riders paying $3 until July. And I don't know how to address that. I do know,

and what I've said, is that the nonprofit programs have actually worked with low-income
community members and that that would continue to happen until July.
But there's a perception, publicly-- and so I keep trying to reiterate all the programs that are out
there. So I just think more communication in that might not be a bad idea, just to reiterate it to the
community at large would be helpful.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's an excellent communication suggestion. And recall that the
nonprofit program currently in place actually gives a larger discount.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It does. It gives you 50%. And I think there's over 200 nonprofit
agencies in that program. So it's really significant.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. It is. And you're right, it's getting the word out. So much of this-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is communication.
DOUG TISDALE: You've heard me say this a lot, and you're going to hear me say it a lot more-communicate, collaborate, and cooperate. So much of this is the communication. Get the word out.
Some of it is through us. Some of it is through the Communications Office. Some of it is through
other people that we speak with that can carry the baton for us.
The LCCs are great. The local coordinating councils are obviously very good at that. If you tell
them, they're great at broadcasting that information.
So an excellent observation, and I share it.
Other matters? I want to be respectful of your time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further?
Ms. Executive Manager of the Board-- oh, I'm sorry. I'll come back to you in a second, Natalie.
Let me just ask Barbara first. Executive Manager is there anything that you need to make sure we
talk about that we haven't mentioned?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. I just want to mention that we have a library copy of the full fiscal
sustainability document that you may want to look at-- number 1 and number 2. I can put together
the figures of the body that was part of that committee, as well as the cost of that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. There was a cost associated.
DOUG TISDALE: That would be useful and helpful. Is that fiscal sustainability also available
electronically, do you know?

BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't believe so.
DOUG TISDALE: I just asked.
Director Menten-[ISIDE CONVERSATION]
DOUG TISDALE: --you had a last observation you wanted to share with us?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So I'll just respond to that last thing. The sustainability task force is
under our report phase. Accessible to the public, but all you have to do is Google "RTD fiscal
sustainability committee." It will have the document, along with the committee, the presentation,
all of the items.
It does not present the updates, including-- we do have the naming rights. We've taken action,
although not fulfilled, on the parking proposal. So that part is missing on things that have been
worked on in the years since 2011 and up until recently. So just for that note.
And then onto the low income-- one message would be, right now, low income through a nonprofit
could take advantage of the 50% off. Hurry and do that, because it goes down to 40% when the
new program's enacted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I agree with you. I just don't think they're taking any new
nonprofits. I think that program is closed. And so you're either in the program or you're not at this
point.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't know. The last one I got in, I was surprised they were still open,
because they said there had been a reduction because we put the cap on. So I can't speak to the
status. I know when I got Red Rocks Community College in there, it was open. There was an
opening
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you all very much. Unless there is further business to come
before this Executive Committee, we will then, at 1:10 PM Mountain Standard Time on Thursday,
January 17, stand adjourned.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

