2021-07-13
Operations & Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, guys. One-minute warning. OK. I'm going to call the Operations and Customer
Service Committee to order. I figure by the time I read all this stuff, everybody will be here, so we'll be OK.
We are convened as of 9:02 PM. I would respectfully ask that everyone attending this meeting please
mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Speak only when called on.
As stated earlier, I thank you all for joining us. Please note that under the current circumstances, the
official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health,
safety, and welfare. Official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom for the immediate
future and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meeting, will be posted as soon as
possible on the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the
link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, if you would like to be acknowledged, I ask that you raise your virtual
hand and wait patiently for me to call you before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by
phone-- I don't think we have any directors participating by phone tonight-- can raise their virtual hands by
pressing star 9. To unmute yourself, press star 6.
We do not take public commentary during the committee meeting. Members of the public who are
interested in speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the monthly Board meeting.
For future meeting dates, go to the Board's meeting portal, which is located at rtd.iqm2.com
We have two recommended actions on the agenda this evening. Our first recommended action is a
motion for the Board of Directors to incorporate a land acknowledgment during its monthly Board
meetings. The text of the land acknowledgment is as follows, although the Chair of the Board may choose
to revise this text from time to time as appropriate.
The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that the land on which our buses and trains operate is the
traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho, and other contemporary tribal nations that are
historically tied to these lands. We honor our indigenous elders who have traveled, inhabited, and
stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout generations. May this acknowledgment
demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of inequity of the native and all
historically oppressed peoples and recognize their current and future contribution in the district as we
move forward. Do I have a motion?

JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Kate.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I heard all kinds of voices. I think unfortunately, Chair Malpiede, that I heard
Director Bouquet first. And I believe that I heard Director Rosenthal as the second.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: If it's OK, I will allow the Chairwoman to be second.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I'm good with that. So I have Bouquet and Rivera-Malpiede. I do not know if we
have any staff to address this at this time. No? I think we're just going to go right on with this the way it
stands. Are there any directors who wish to speak to this motion? I see Director Broom's hand up.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wonder, is there some significant date during the course of
the year that we might pick where we would use this statement on our agenda to acknowledge this
without putting it on every agenda? Because it would just get lost and nobody'll pay any attention to it if
it's just there on a regular basis. With the Pledge of Allegiance, we usually say the Pledge of Allegiance.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that's a valid question. Would anybody like to speak to that? OK.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'll speak to it if you would like me to.

KATE WILLIAMS: You may speak to it, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah, typically Director Broom—
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madame Chair, if I might?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Oh, go ahead, Madam.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I guess I'm not being heard.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, you're not. I'm sorry. Now I can hear you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'm going to turn off my camera. Is it better?
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] No, it isn't better.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I've just turned off my—
KATE WILLIAMS: There you go. You give it a shot. Director Bouquet, I'll come back to you after the
Chair. Yes, Angie. We can hear you speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom, the whole premise of doing the land acknowledgment on a
monthly basis at the Board meeting is to honor the ancestral [AUDIO OUT] of the native communities by
the RTD Board of Directors [AUDIO OUT] that it will be lost. Because one of the issues [INAUDIBLE]
forgotten for so long of this is to show respect to the land and to the tribes that have lived on these lands
before any of us were here. And so it really is a [INAUDIBLE]. I hope that answers your question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Well, I'm not questioning your motivation for this. I'm just saying that I think it'll get lost in
the shuffle by being on the agenda every month. And if you could tie it with some specific meaningful date
each year and then take some time when that particular date comes up to speak to this, it'd be more
meaningful than just printing this every month.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, Director Broom. I think that's a valid viewpoint. Director Lewis, you
were speaking. Would you like to continue?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do think it's much more appropriate for Director-- our
Chair, Rivera-Malpiede, to respond to that. And so I think her answer is sufficient, and I'm happy to chime
in if necessary, but you can go to the others.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I will go down. Happy to entertain discussion. Director Rosenthal, I see your hand
up.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you very much, Madam Chair. And I concur with Directors Lewis and
Rivera-Malpiede. It was a pleasure working with both the Chair and also Director Dishell on coming up
with this language. And as a Colorado history teacher myself, and you know, I think it's something that I
always try to keep in mind is that this is a sort of thing to keep it at the forefronts of our minds, that we
always need to keep this-- that we have to do more on equity and to keep in mind our Native American
forebears who occupied the land more.
And so I do believe it's important that we recognize them on a monthly basis at our main Board meeting
and that we do say the Pledge as well. And I don't think it's necessarily going to be lost and the meaning
will be lost, with all due respect to my colleague Mr. Broom. You know, I do see what he's saying, but I
think it is important to do it on a monthly basis. And so I do support this motion. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Broom, I know we were kind of having a conversation and you
expressed. Do you have anything further before I go on down the line?

BOB BROOM: No, I don't.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, sir. You could put your hand down. Director-- boy, they jump all the
time. It doesn't work like it's supposed to work. I'm going to Catlin next. Director Tisdale, stand by. I see
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Williams. I kind of agree with Director Broom that I fear that the
message might become diluted over time, but I think maybe for this next year, it would be important to
recite it at every Board meeting.
I think it could be reevaluated to maybe-- if it does become diluted, that we could reevaluate it and put it
after a year's time or some time to see if there might be a more significant date or event that we could tie
it to and make it more ceremonial. So just a suggestion. I do not want it to get lost as just part of a routine
recitation at the beginning of every Board meeting. So that's just an observation and a suggestion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate that. I have two comments and a
question. First comment is I do want to thank the three directors who brought this forward for making the
changes from the original draft that was submitted. I think they are very helpful, and I think it produced a
positive and worthwhile result.
The question is-- and then I have a final comment-- the question is-- and I think it may help to address the
concerns raised by Director Broom. We were told previously that both the General Assembly of the state
of Colorado and the City Council in the City and County of Denver provide such a land acknowledgment
at the beginning of their meetings. My question is, do they do that with the council at every council
meeting? And for the legislature, do they do it every day of the session or just at the beginning? That's my
question, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am not able to answer that myself. Yes, please, Madam Chair. Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, if I might? Thank you. The Denver City Council does do it at
every meeting along with the Pledge of Allegiance. The state legislature, of course, is out of session. But I
can assure you that all of the Latino elected officials have been meeting and talking about this issue for
quite some time, and bring it forward at all of their meetings. So Director Tisdale, I would say to you that
the indigenous elected officials have been discussing this. And in fact, they do bring it forward to all of
their meetings.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. All right. And I'm sorry. I thought the legislature had already approved it. So what I
hear is that they're in the process of reviewing it. But you have answered the question. The City Council
does it at each of their meetings, and I think that's helpful.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I hope that's helpful to you.
DOUG TISDALE: The final comment then is the language in the draft is that the Chair of the Board may
choose to revise this text from time to time as appropriate. Respectfully, whoever serves as the Chairman
of the Board this year or next year or beyond, I'm troubled by the Chair unilaterally changing the language
as to an expression on behalf of the RTD Board of Directors. That's not within the purview of the Chair.
I would respectfully suggest that this be restricted-- and if necessary, I would make a motion to amend-that it may be revised by the Board from time to time as appropriate as opposed to the Chair. But before I
make that motion to amend, I would ask whether there is a consensus on the part of the movement and
the second on this motion to accept that friendly amendment so as to adjust the language to read, so the
Board may choose to revise this text from time to time. Just delete the phrase Chair of the.
KATE WILLIAMS: That would be Director Bouquet and Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Ladies and gentlemen,
are you OK with that modification?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [INAUDIBLE] OK with that friendly amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I am as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. So the record would reflect that we've just
simply stricken the words Chair of the so that it reads though the Board may choose. Thank you very
much. That concludes my comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I guess just to clarify what Director Tisdale was
asking about with, for example, Denver City Council and when they mention their land acknowledgment,
my understanding is it's not at all meetings, which would include committee meetings, et cetera. I think it's
just every Monday their main council meeting when they have all the members present. That is my
understanding, and that's why my understanding is what this proposal is is that we have it once a month
at our main Board meeting and not at all of our committee meetings.
And I think that that would also lend itself to making it more meaningful, which is what I think Director
Broom was trying to get at. It's like, hey. How do we make sure that when we do mention it, we mean it,
and it's more thoughtful? So that is my understanding, and I do support this amendment as well.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. [INAUDIBLE] also, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I support this wholeheartedly. And to Director Broom's
point, there has been some discussion about how territorial acknowledgments can be stripped of their
disruptive power through repetition, and so I really appreciate him bringing up that point. And the purpose
of this is really to begin to educate folks.
And hopefully as a Board, we are discussing how we really move beyond the acknowledgment into what
it might look like for us to create policy to support our first nation folks, our native folks, our indigenous
folks. And so I really appreciate this as a first step, and that acknowledgment and that education. And
then we can as a Board begin to determine what it looks like to solidify some of these things in policy. So
thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Tisdale, your hand is still up. You do wish to speak
again? Nope.
DOUG TISDALE: No, Madame Chair. I was just so enthralled with the discussion, I forgot to take it down.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's OK. You would know that I'm worried about Robert's Rules of Order, but we
seem to be getting along just fine right now. I would note for the record that the motion does state that-- to
incorporate the land acknowledgment during its monthly Board meetings. It does not say committee
meetings, et cetera. So if I see no one else wanting to speak to this, I'd like to see if there's anybody who
has the chutzpah to vote no on this action.
I will take that then as 14 yeses. And Director Dishell is not here. And this motion then will pass. Thank
you all for that. OK. I think I'm so far so good here. Robert? Is he around?
The next recommended action on our agenda this evening is for the Board of Directors to approve the
September 2021 service change package as revised and summarized in attachment A and to authorize
the General Manager or her designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes. Do I have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Second?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis and Director Tisdale, for that. At this time, I'm going to ask
our staff to present pertinent information, noting that this information was included in the packet. Please
raise your virtual hand if you have questions, and be sure to state your name every time you speak. And I
believe I'm going to call on Mr. Ford.

MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Michael Ford, COO. So I just wanted to-- over the course of
the last few months, RTD continues to listen to our stakeholders and our customers so that they can
provide input to our service change process, which helps us make future plans on how we deliver the
service.
By way of discussion, with the lifting of the public health restrictions and public gatherings, there's been
an increase in requests for return to school and work planned for the September 2021 time frame
support, the need for increased commuter service. The proposal contains a mix of service enhancements
and adjustments that address the commuter school service patterns and contract compliance.
The proposal service change to the current COVID-19 service plan implemented in April of 2020 and
modified in both January and June of 2021. The proposal are a mix of formerly suspended commuter
routes and routes with educational institutions.
So when we're making determinations, we continue to focus in on the Board guidance and principles that
have been established. They focus on service performance, evaluations based on the RTD service
standards, the effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and transit-dependent markets, the
availability of alternative service to affect customers, cost-effective distribution throughout the district and
family of services, and the ability to enhance service when possible.
Clearly, Title VI and Civil Rights Act benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color, or
national origin. Also, disparate effects on low-income and minority populations, and response to changes
in the communities where services are provided.
So these are the things that we look at as part of this process. And having said that, we've had three
public meetings via Microsoft Teams June 28, July 1, and July 7 that garnered about 138 people. These
meetings were also recorded. And with that, obviously, there's detail that I'd like to turn it over to Mr.
Carter that's highlighted in your packet. So as I pass that on, we can take questions after that.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Mr. Ford. This is Jessie Carter, Acting Senior Manager of Service
Development. Just to go over some of the items that were kind of highlighted in the Civil Rights
Committee, there were some changes to the initial recommendation that are, of course, highlighted in the
Board report itself. Those include the Route 20 where we're adding additional peak hour service per a
request that came through the stakeholder process. Routes 42, 45, and 121, those were in direct
reflection of the Title VI review.
And I have to say so it's very clear that working with Mr. Green has been nothing short of a pleasure. He
is very thorough and helped the team come to a service change that I think is that much more equitable.
So with that, we also had to add in other changes that came through the customer service input to include
additional service on the E and W Lines, later night service. We had planned on adding one additional trip

in the southbound direction on the E Line, but hearing from the community who are using our service to
get home from late night work in the downtown area, it was decided that we should go ahead and
reinstate the later service that runs as late as 2:00 AM in the morning on that rail service.
So with that, that summarizes the changes that were added to. However, I should note-- and I want to
make sure it's understood that we're not tone-deaf-- we did hear quite a bit of a large request coming for
the ROUTE GS to be reinstated. And we certainly-- given the number of comments coming from the
mayor's office, coming from individuals who actually participated in the public meetings, it's something
that we are certainly giving even more consideration.
So with that, I wanted to make sure that the Board members who have contacted me in reference to that
particular change, that we're not tone-deaf on the matter. We do understand and acknowledge that. The
request has been made. So with that, I would like to turn it back to you, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Mr. Carter. We're open for additional questions at this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, gentlemen. I'd like to say for the record that we all, I'm sure, really
appreciate the work that you did on this. I did hear from a number of my constituents. And Mr. Carter, I
did hear some feedback on happiness for people who have to work late and have to get home. So I see
Director Broom has his hand up, so we'll go to discussion now. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I had a couple items. Could you describe I guess how light rail
service-- like for example, the H Line, is impacted from a standpoint of how many runs there are each day
at 15-minute intervals versus 30-minute intervals, and so forth? And what's proposed, how does that
compare with the pre-COVID numbers?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford, I'm assuming that is you or Mr. Carter.
MICHAEL FORD: I think I'll ask Mr. Carter. And if we need to maybe bring in Dave Jensen, we can do
that.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Again, this is Jessie Carter, Acting Senior Manager of Service Development.
Director Broom, in looking at the changes that were proposed for the E and the W Line versus those for
the-- we currently don't have any proposals for the H Line. Currently, the H Line is running on something
that reflects more of a weekend service level, so its span starts later than it normally would in normal
weekday service.
And also, its service frequency at times becomes 30 minutes instead of the policy headway frequency of
15. The same is true of the R Line and other rail services.

I do need to mention the fact that when we look at impacts to ridership, the light rail lines-- not all rail
lines, because University of Colorado A Line actually has maintained more than-- well, maintained 50% of
its ridership as it stands right now. But the light rail lines in particular, they did see a harder hit to
ridership. The H Line is included in that, which retained somewhere between 20% and 30% of its
ridership.
So it's really difficult to support higher frequencies right now, though I would expect that in September as
we go back to school and as ridership builds up, we'll certainly have to monitor where things are at that
time. I hope that answers your question. If not, please let me know.
BOB BROOM: No, I think you covered it. Thanks a lot. The other question I had was, have we been in
contact with the Broncos? As I understand it, the Bronco ride thing was stopped. And of course, last year
nobody was in the stands anyway, so it didn't really make any difference. But they say this year they're
going to sell out their 77,000 tickets. And what I'm concerned about is if there's no bus service to bring
people in, that means a lot of people are going to end up getting in their cars, and they're going to have a
real tough time when they get down there and there's no adequate parking.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director Broom or Madam Chair, if I can address Director Broom's inquiry.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. So thank you. The team and I have been looking at this, and I am preparing a
Board briefing document, which I plan to disseminate to all of you by the latter part of this week.
Recognizing that we just had a presentation as related to transit service equity, there's a myriad of
different issues that we have to take into consideration.
But more so working in conjunction with our operations staff, recognizing that we have been supporting
over the past couple of days services provided to the Major League Baseball games. We were looking to
leverage that as we go forward with the adequate resources we have. So at this juncture as we talk about
what we're doing with the Broncos, I am prepared to give you a more in-depth discussion, because
there's a myriad of issues as relates to ADA, federal travel regulations, Department of Transportation rest
periods for our operators.
And then more so, what's very prevalent, I'd be remiss to state that past practice of this agency had
required our front line operators to be mandated to work six days a week. And I cannot support that in
good faith as we look at the potential exposure and risk to our front line personnel. That's paramount
especially as we look at providing service back to levels that are more in line with pre-COVID levels. So
more information will be forthcoming this week, and we'll be more than happy to address those specific
inquiries once you receive that information.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome, sir.
KATE WILLIAMS: You finished, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Aye.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I believe that Director Rosenthal is next.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter, for your really
tremendous work. I know it's very difficult balancing a lot of lines that were either cut or eliminated and
how to restore service.
So my question is-- so first of all, thank you for your explanation about the light rail lines. And my question
was going to be about the R Line, but you already addressed that. First of all, thank you for restoring
some service to the 153. I really do appreciate. That's an important north-south line for a lot of high
schools in Aurora.
But my question is regarding the 157 that goes from Buckley to City College of Aurora. What is sort of
your thought process on restoring that service? Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Carter?
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you, Chair Williams. Currently, I look back and I had to-- in speaking with
Mr. Ford about some of the comments that we've received and requests for services, I cannot-- and I'm
going to go back and double check, but I do not recall a request yet for the Route 157. That's not to say
that it isn't a genuine concern, because again, it's a place of higher learning, and therefore they are likely
expecting more students back in school this upcoming year. But we just hadn't received anything from the
Route 157.
You might recall at some point in time the Route 157 was also up for service reductions due to its
previous ridership performance. It's a relatively new route that was born out of the University of Colorado
A Line service plan and was a change to a former Route 169 that had a segment on it that did not
perform very well. So it's currently not in on the priority list, but we are more than happy to reach out to
the campus and speak to what their needs are to see if there's something we're missing with regards to
their request for service.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. That's answers my question. Appreciate it.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Carter. Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I believe that Director
Guissinger's next.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I actually think Director Sloan was ahead of me, if she wants to go next.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Well, I'm going to tell you guys something. It changes on the picture, but I was told
that if I go to my participants list—
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. I'm happy to go.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. There you go, because you're there.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a feeling we'll be talking about the same thing. Jessie, thanks so much for all
of the work. I know that in my area, Nataly has done a great job and did a great presentation yesterday,
and I appreciate and I think my constituents all appreciate what you've done.
You mentioned the GS. And I was unfortunately out of town for the service change public hearings, but I
understand there were something like 64 individuals that spoke. And then of course, some of our biggest
supporters in terms of buying eco passes and supporting RTD was CU School of Mines, Golden, Boulder,
Boulder County, the chambers.
And I guess I'm wondering what you do to watch that, and what we would need to do to help bring that
back. Is it potential-- sooner than January? My understanding-- and I don't know all the specifics-- is that
pre-pandemic, the ridership overall was not great. But there sure were a lot of people saying that in those
early morning and late afternoon hours, it was a busy bus. So I guess I'm just looking for more info.
JESSIE CARTER: Absolutely. Again, Jessie Carter, Acting Senior Manager of Service Development.
Yeah. In looking at the Route GS, its overall performance over time hasn't been the strongest. However,
we did have, as you mentioned, quite a few folks participate in the public hearing process and have
written us as well requesting that the GS go back.
What makes or what challenges us the most is the amount of hours it actually takes. So for instance, if we
were to do what was suggested by one particular person, very thoughtful in presenting a possible solution
of providing two trips in each direction, that requires about a 14-hour service of the service hours to be
expended to provide two trips in the AM and two trips in the PM. And that is a lot of time, a lot of operator
time to actually do that.
So trying to make it fit within the context of how we prepare our services would best be done through
interlining our services between different routes so that the operators-- or sorry, that we create work that
is cost-effective. And right now at our current service level, we don't have an easy fix, something for it to
be interline to make it a reasonable and cost-effective service.
That doesn't mean that we are not looking at our current run cut. We are in the process of creating the
work shifts, and we're going to explore whether or not it would be possible to merge it with the work shift

that might work to provide it in a more cost-effective manner. So it's something we want to continue to
look at. And we'd like to have a conversation with both you and Director Sloan about this offline.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And the number of hours, does that have to do with the
length of the trip? We can do this offline too.
JESSIE CARTER: Yes, it's the length of the trip and the deadhead required to get to the start of the trip.
So you're either deadheading-- unfortunately, this go round, we would have to put it out of our Platte
division in downtown Denver. So we would be deadheading from Denver to Boulder to begin the route,
from Boulder going to the Federal Center. So that costs quite a bit of time to actually do that.
And that in the opposite direction in the afternoon, we'd pull out from the Platte division, go to Fed Center,
and then have to go up to Boulder. But then we'd have to deadhead the bus back from Boulder to Platte
again. So it doesn't come at-- it's not a cheap run.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And I'd appreciate a meeting with Director Sloan. I think Director Cook is
affected as well. That's great. I would just also mention that I'm hearing a lot-- and I know y'all are working
on Heatherwood and some of those-- the FF4 is different from some of the other FFs, because it gets
people to the other end of the 16th Street mall. It also serves the Boulder junction, the TOD. So I hope
we're looking at that one as well.
JESSIE CARTER: We are. But we're also looking for indicators, looking at how the FF1 and FF5 are
doing and seeing if there is an increase in ridership on those that would encourage us to say, hey, it's
time to take a hard look at the FF4 and the FF2.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, thanks.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you both. OK. According to my Zoom etiquette-- I'm sorry, ladies and
gentlemen, but Director Whitmore is next.
TROY L. WHITMORE: I was tempted to let Director Sloan go ahead, but I'm not going to mess with you
any more tonight, Madam Chair, so—
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Good plan.

TROY L. WHITMORE: This is mostly for putting it on the record for my constituents. We've had some late
concerns from some Adams County officials regarding an amendment to a route that makes a little bit of
a walk for some of the folks going to the Justice Center, so we'd like to take another look at it. But we've
had some late information, and I probably needed to jump on this a few weeks back. So we're going to
take that offline.
I had a conversation briefly with Jessie and Mr. Ford. But I didn't want for any of the constituents who
were concerned about that to take note that I hear them and I'm visiting with the important staff member
to see what we can do. So with that, I'll yield my time to either Director Cook or Director Sloan. Your pick.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Well, that's-- thank you, Director Whitmore. And that is an interesting one,
because originally—
SPEAKER 1: Oh my god. This meeting is still going on. I'm so glad I wasn't—
SPEAKER 2: Are you serious?
KATE WILLIAMS: Hello? People, we can hear you. It is still going on, and we are serious. You need to
watch your microphone there. OK. So Director Cook and Director Sloan are going to flip a coin, because
you guys have switched roles. And we're going to go with Sloan. Sorry, Director Cook. Stand by.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Oh, all right. I would be happy to go. I have one question and then a comment. The
question ought to be really quick. In the materials, there's a statement that says the public listening phase
will begin this month as part of the September service change process. Both the stakeholder feedback
and customer input will help inform RTD's future service plans. Are there more public comment meetings
coming up this month?
JESSIE CARTER: I'm sorry, Jessie Carter, acting—
KATE WILLIAMS: Whatever. Actor—
JESSIE CARTER: Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: Acting whatever.
JESSIE CARTER: [LAUGHS] With that, no. We have actually concluded the public hearing process,
although the stakeholder process itself for the January service change will begin shortly. So we did
conclude it as of July 7. So that was the last public hearing and the last time we were accepting written
comment.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. Madam Chair, may I continue with the comment?

KATE WILLIAMS: You waited very patiently. You may speak.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Jessie-- or Mr. Carter, that was a great explanation you just gave about the GS route
and your decision making process on that. And I would say that you can take pride in your service change
process this time first in coming up with an equitable change.
And secondly, you've done really well in the public engagement process. People have-- returning riders,
continuing riders, potential riders, leaders of institutions have all weighed in, and that's impressive. So
congratulations to staff on that.
As far as the GS route goes, you know there was really enthusiastic participation in that process. I
probably wouldn't be doing my duty as a representative of District M if I didn't make one final plea for the
reinstitution of it, so that was my plea.
But I would like to say that the engagement process is only halfway done when you listen. I think people
would appreciate knowing that their comments were heard and that there was a firm rationale that they
couldn't possibly have known for the reason why their requests were rejected. And you just gave that
explanation just now.
I would appreciate it if there's some outgoing engagement process where you could let people know.
They would appreciate it. And this is what you're doing about it. This is why you couldn't give them what
they wanted at this time. So I'd love to talk with you and the other directors offline about this.
JESSIE CARTER: Director, I couldn't agree more. And I truly do appreciate when the public does come
out like that to ask for something to come back or to ask for a modification of service. It actually
encourages us to take harder looks at things and to make sure that we're making the right decision.
I will say that the team is still looking at and trying to figure out, is there a way of trying to provide that
service that doesn't have too big of an impact on the number of operators? Because what's the other
thing we have to stress? We do have a human resource challenge when it comes down to operators.
So I certainly want to sit down and have a meeting with you. And if we have to craft a communication for
the former riders of the GS that explains where we are and to kind of encourage them and give them the
idea for certain as to when we would like to propose service to be returned, I'm open to actually doing
that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Great. So Madam Chair, if I may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, ma'am, for indulging me. I just want to say, Director Sloan,
thank you for your comments. And I think holistically as I've been working with the team, we're trying to

create a feedback loop for all so when comments are provided, there is an understanding of the rationale,
recognizing the deadhead time and the expensiveness of this route. And also as we look at equity using
our service, equity plan to guide our decisions, I think it's incumbent upon us to create a feedback loop for
all information that's incoming to the organization.
So thank you for broaching it, but I just want to put out holistically that it's a mechanism in which we're
looking at perhaps to put something on our website or disseminate something in such a way so people do
have a global understanding. So thank you very much for the opportunity to address that.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. And Madam Chair, one final comment, because I'd like to conclude with
a sincere thank you to planning staff. I know they work hard and they work smart, and they had
considerations that neither I or certainly the public cannot understand the complexity of the decisions you
had to make. So thank you again. And with that, I conclude my comments.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. And Thank you, Ms. Johnson. OK. I'm going to ask Director
Sloan and Director Broom to put their hands down unless they want another bite of the apple, and I'm
going to give the floor to Director Cook, who has waited.
SHELLEY COOK: No worries. Thank you, Madam Chair. So earlier tonight, I was recalling that when
these service changes were introduced, I thought that the net increase in our service level relative to the
pandemic was about 4% or something.
But earlier tonight in response to Director Broom's question about finances, I think CEO, General
Manager Johnson, you said something about 85%. Do the changes, since we approved bringing this to
the public, do they amount to an increase to that level? Or where are we currently with that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Cook, thank you very much. I was talking in a global sense of where we're
trying to get as we were talking about the funds, i.e., 2023, 2024. Currently, we are at 64%. These
changes will add about 6% to 7%. So we'll be hovering at 70%. Mr. Carter, can you confirm my statement
is accurate?
JESSIE CARTER: That is accurate.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, sir.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. That's helpful, actually. And it shows that we're making real progress toward
ramping back up. I do agree with Director Sloan and Director Guissinger about the GS corridor. That is
kind of a key corridor that ties together some major institutions in rail. It provides a connection between
Boulder and Golden that doesn't require going downtown and back out to the far reaches of the metro
area. So I do think that's a real advantage of that route.

I hadn't appreciated until now the impact of the deadheading. We don't have a west metro like we have an
east metro. I hadn't appreciated the impact of that on the cost for providing the service, so thanks for
elaborating on that.
And then I just wanted to wrap up by saying thank you very much, though, for A, adding the 19 back to
weekday service. And also, really appreciate the focus on addressing the ways that you are, the areas
that have seen a disparate and disproportionate impact and burden. So thank you very much, all.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Broom, do you need to speak to something again?
BOB BROOM: Yes, I had a request for some information. Prior to COVID, we were getting regular reports
on how many vacancies we had as far as drivers and mechanics were concerned, how many people we
had in various classes to become operators, and so on. And I don't have any feel now for, how many
vacancies do we have? And are we going to be going back to mandated six-day-a-week overtime as a
result of adding another 6% to our service level?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Broom, thank you. We have on our agenda an addition under discussion items
about hiring and staffing that the people who are on this call are prepared to speak to. So if you can stand
by for your answer for just a minute, we can move this discussion on and come to that one. Would that
suit you?
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Cook, your hand is still up. Ms. McManus's hand is up.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. CEO General Manager Johnson's hand was also up.
KATE WILLIAMS: I apologize. I did not see it. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. I wanted to address Director Broom's question, because that
information is still provided to the Board. It's done in the Board briefing document that's disseminated.
And there will be one forthcoming that includes how many operators are in classes. I just reviewed the
one today that will be released to you all. So that is still ongoing information. It's just provided in a
different format.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. We will talk more about that in a moment, but I'd like to-- I have a mover as
Director Tisdale and a second as Director Lewis. And I'd like to call for a vote on this—
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think we have a hand up still.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Sorry. I just have a quick question. It might be in the form of comment. Director
Sloan, Guissinger actually reminded me that Jeff Becker would present to us the routes that were inside
of the box that were productive and the things that were outside of the box that were unproductive.
And it might be helpful-- well, for me personally, it would be very helpful if we might bring that back to the
Board in terms of-- I know directors tend to have requests from constituents about routes that they'd like
to reestablish or reinstate, and it would be helpful if we could see the productivity for their routes in that
form as we are moving forward and making decisions, just because I intend to ensure that we are putting
service out that is productive and that is cost-effective and that is efficient. And that was one way in which
it was presented to us that was easy to understand and to read.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you for that. Mr. Carter, did you want to speak to that? Or do we want to—
JESSIE CARTER: Absolutely. And thank you, Chair Williams. In looking at the performance-- and we
sometimes call that the Becker report. [LAUGHS] And from this point forward, I believe we will be
referring to it as the Becker report. But the service performance report that's done on an annual basis
takes a comparison of the previous year to the year in which it's given.
So we are working on providing that data, but it's going to be a bit different because September-- well,
actually, March 12, 2020 marked a very big change to ridership when it comes down to RTD's
performance. And because of that, we have to acknowledge that fact and kind of temper our expectations
in terms of how the system performs.
When looking at weekday ridership, we were happy to be above 300,000 boardings per day. I actually got
really happy to look at the reports, our cursory reports to see that we're finally back to about 150,000
boardings per day, which is 10,000 more than what we were back in March of 2020.
So yeah, we are planning to bring forth some data. It may be in a different way of looking at it because of
2020 being so different from previous years. But also, we're working to complete the service performance
data as well. So thank you for that.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you so much, Mr. Carter. And if I might, Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. I really, really appreciate you saying that. I suppose the request is for
me personally in a way in which I might be able to articulate to my constituents when they request
services that may have been discontinued due COVID how decisions are being made or what information
is being utilized in order to be able to reinstate or not reinstate those services. And so it would just be
beneficial for me because they ask me a lot of questions, and I like to know the answers. [LAUGHS]
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think we can-- I think we can all relate to that. OK. If we are good for the moment-- Mr.
Carter, you good? Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, I'm good.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ms. Johnson? OK. So now I'm going to call for a vote. And the easiest way we've been
doing this lately, are there any no votes on this matter? OK. I then have 14 yeses, no nos, and one
absent. That would be Director Dishell, who is not here.
OK. We have one discussion item, running right along. And our discussion item was not on your agenda
when it went out, but we thought we might want to have a little discussion about hiring and staffing related
to a number of questions that came up over the course of the evening. And so I believe that Mr. Ford is
going to give us some information.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Michael Ford, COO. I just want to kind of give you an
update based on the discussions I've had with marketing and HR.
There's a lot of activity around the hiring. New recruiting models have been established, a proactive
outreach to passive candidates. So we're not just posting and waiting for people to apply. We're actively
recruiting. There's been a hiring of two contracted sourcing specialists on board to help go and do
outreach and support bus and rail operations. They've been indoctrinated so they really understand the
business, so they can know what to recruit for as well.
Some of the other things that are going on, event sponsorships. Bandimere Speedway outreach. There's
an event this July and August to attract mechanics and shop support. This week with the Rockies and the
All-Star games, there's been ambassadors out there, making people aware of the opportunities with RTD
as well. So there's that.
The [INAUDIBLE] SIM [? narrow ?] sponsor podcast was also been established. There's 12 to 18
episodes that are supposed to take place. two episodes recorded already and there's more to come.
There's banners and bus exterior information, both on the king side and on the tail side. They're on the
back of the buses and also the exterior of the bus, advertising we are hiring. Ongoing messaging that is
also very prominent about RTD is hiring. There are also banners and posters on RTD facilities, park and

rides, rail interior boards that are also inside, so you can see that. Ongoing messaging about RTD is
hiring is also depicted in various strategic locations throughout.
There's also print advertisement. The Westword full-page ad has been out. And it kind of-- I don't know if
it's very visible here, but this is out, and there's going to be one on the rail as well. I apologize for not
having this on the screen. But again, there's a lot of focus on getting information out, move your city
outreach.
There's a video graphic focus also. And we're also engaging our employees that have been here, and
they're doing kind of testimonials and talking about being part of RTD and what it means to them. So
those are some of the things that we can speak to right now. There's other things under foot. But just
wanted to give some semblance of understanding about what we've been doing. This is not all of it, but it
is something I wanted to bring forward.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. And I'm sure that everybody appreciates hearing that. I know that
everybody is concerned about staffing and about hiring and about mandating and about operators related
to service, so I appreciate your input on all of that. I don't see any hands raised in question. Oh, I'm sorry.
Director Lewis, I should have known better.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: [LAUGHS] Thank you so much, Madam Chair. I just have one quick question. I
know we had had discussion-- I really appreciate what you have presented to us, Mr. Ford.
Previously, we had had discussions about the exit survey data to see what operators might have been
saying as they were separating from the agency, recognizing that retention-- that recruiting is important,
but retention is much more important, and how we keep folks. And so I was just curious if we had begun
to collect maybe some of the survey data so that we might be able to assess from a qualitative and
quantitative perspective on why people might not be staying with the agency.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. Michael Ford, the COO. We have been beginning that process with HR and
asking pertinent questions so we have more of a baseline. The other thing I would add to that is we're
also working on a way to kind of measure throughout the life cycle of an employee from the time they
come in to each area that they start to move into. What's going on at that time? What are those triggers?
What do we need to do differently to help ensure sustainability of our workforce? So we're kind of working
on a life cycle as well.
But in terms of your question about exit interviews, there have been focuses on that and questions are
being asked right now so we can get more pertinent information to help us in our recruitment efforts. So I
can assure you that the HR has been involved in that with us, and we are continuing that process, and it's
more refined than it has been in the past.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you so much. And I recognize with the strategic planning that this is
probably something that's probably implemented in terms of metrics and benchmarks and we're at the

beginning phases of that. And I just wanted to put it on the table, and I appreciate the work that you all
are doing, recognizing that we are at the beginning phases of these things. So thank you so much.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Thank you, Mr. Ford. OK. We are finished with discussion
items. We have one thing that I'd like to bring up under other matters. I don't know how many of you have
seen-- oh, I don't know, I forgot what I did with it-- the fantastic commemorative transit passes. But I
would like to ask Ms. Tonilas, if she has stayed up here with us tonight, to speak to us for a minute about
that.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good evening, everyone. So what
Director Williams is talking about is the commemorative MLB transit pass. And all the Board members
have gotten a supply of those as a nice keepsake and to distribute as you saw fit.
Actually, in discussions early on and planning for the MLB activities, General Manager Johnson had
mentioned that, wouldn't that be kind of a cool thing to do? And our team was like, yep. Let's run with that.
And so we started to coordinate with Visit Denver and with the MLB partners that were working with
everyone here in the Denver metro region. And we were able to actually use the design, the logo, if you
will, that was used for all of the MLB events.
And so it was a great partnership. We printed up about 10,000 of these and had different distribution
points, our sales outlets, King Soopers and Safeway. But then also MLB and Visit Denver were also
distributing these. Still are distributing them. There are still some available.
And people who are baseball fans and just I think fans of transit or of any kind of commemorative kind of
token love these types of things. So we hope that you enjoy these. And it's something that maybe looking
forward we might do more of this as we roll out and launch our account-based ticketing system.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Tonilas. Maybe we could have a commemorative for the GS route
when it gets rolling again. OK. I don't have anything else. If anybody else has anything-- oop, I see a
hand. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I will keep this very quick. This will be one of my last quick updates on the
Accountability Committee. They reached a final report, made a few amendments on Monday. I think I saw
an email where the amendments went out to the committee today to proof them, get back to them
tomorrow.
So I expect they'll be submitted at the end of this week or the beginning of next week. I know that Ms.
Johnson her team are working on responses, and I think will be getting us a timeline soon. We have 45
days to respond. Maybe Ms. Johnson might want to add to that.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, if I may, Madam Chair. I plan to provide a timeline and a briefing about our path
forward during the course of my oral report during the Board meeting, as we should have better
understanding and be in receipt or close to being in receipt of the draft.
But I will share with you, I had the opportunity to speak with Director Whitmore and Director Guissinger.
And in doing so, will provide this body with draft responses in advance of any public discussion so you all
can formulate your thoughts, and then we can talk about them in public session and then have agreement
going forward.
But to the point that I raised at the outset, I will put forward a recommendation for the timeline which we
will do, recognizing that we'll probably have to have comments back in early September, recognizing that
we'll probably get a final report around the week of July 19. And looking at that, that would land us in early
September with that six-week time frame. But we want to be well in advance of that, so I will have more
information in the next couple of days or at the next-- yeah, the Board meeting. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you, Lynn, for that. OK. I think I do not see any more hands. Last call.
We're all going to turn into a pumpkin in a minute anyhow. So thank you all for all the information and
your time. The next meeting I believe is August 17, and I believe that we can stand adjourned at 10:06
PM. Good night. Thanks.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: [LAUGHS] Good night, y'all. [LAUGHS]

