2022-01-20
Executive Committee
VINCE BUZEK: I'm going to call to order the January 20, 2022 Executive Committee meeting. We are
convened as 12:01 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to unmute yourself until
you are recognized. I will now call the roll.
Buzek is here. First Vise Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vise Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Treasurer Whitmore? You're muted. I see you, but.
TROY WHITMORE: Let me try it again. I'm here!
VINCE BUZEK: Yay. Good job. OK. So we have the Executive Committee here. I don't see any other-Am I missing any other directors? I don't see any other directors.
We have GM CEO Johnson. We have our legal Counsel Melanie Snyder. We've got Gillian, Randy,
Barbara, John, and Michael Davies. Thank you all, staff, for being here as well.
We're going to move on through our agenda because we've got some things to discuss. Mostly, I think,
under Other Matters.
But, anyway, we're going to open this up to public comment for the very first time in the history of RTD.
So the public comment period is a new addition to our committee agendas, and I would like to open it to
anyone who would like to address this Executive Committee. If you wish to speak and have not already
done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, please press star 6 to toggle your
mute settings. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. And each speaker will have
three minutes to speak.

I want to also recognize Director Eric Davidson just logged in. So I don't see anybody here. Ms McManus,
do you see any members of the public signing in for comment?
TROY WHITMORE: No. There are no external attendees at this time.
VINCE BUZEK: All right. With no participants in the queue, I will close the public comment period.
We're going to move on now to recommended actions. And we have one recommended action on the
agenda this afternoon. And it relates to the internal audit consulting and advisory services contract.
That recommendation is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO to engage
in a solicitation for a professional services firm for the provision of internal audit, consulting, and advisory
services.
This action is recommended by the members of the audit ad hoc committee. Directors Peggy Catlin, Eric
Davidson, and Bobby Dishell. Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: And who was that? Peggy? How about a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Is that Lynn?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: Now, any discussion on this item? Seeing none, I'll ask if there are any no votes with
regard to this action item? And seeing no no votes, this comes out of the Executive Committee with
unanimous approval.
Next is our January Board meeting agenda review. This is still a function of the Executive Committee. It is
approving the Board meeting agenda.
There's going to be one addition to the agenda, so any motion to do that is going to have to contain this
change. So what we're doing is we're adding an Executive session to the agenda.
And I did this. I asked GM/CEO Johnson if we could add an Executive session so we could have a brief
discussion on the status of the collective bargaining agreement. And that will be the purpose of the
Executive session.
So I need to know if there's a motion to move the January Board agenda with the addition of the
Executive session to the Board on the 25th.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr Chair, before you start the motion, I would just like to point out an item that needs
to be modified. When you look at the draft Board agenda, which is on-- Well, it's actually the agenda itself.
There's not page numbers.

The second page, and it says-- item seven-- it says Audit Committee Report. That should actually read
Audit Ad Hoc Committee Report.
TROY WHITMORE: Good catch.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So here we go. So the motion we need is to move the January Board agenda
forward to the Board meeting on the 25 with the addition of the Executive session and with the revision to
item seven, reading where Audit Committee Report should read Audit Ad Hoc Committee Report.
Is there a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Whitmore. A second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Sloan. Got it. Any discussion on this?
Seeing no hands raised, are there any no votes in moving this agenda forward as modified? Seeing none,
that passes out of the Executive session unanimously.
Next we're going to move into our discussion regarding ad hoc committees. So we've got a couple of
different ad hoc committees. I'm going to be adding one next Tuesday as well. We'll talk a little bit about
that.
Before I get started on that, though, I had some discussion with GM CEO Johnson, and there is an
external committee that the Board appoints people to. There are several.
The one I'm talking about is the CDOT liaison committee. I don't see a need to continue that. I don't see a
need for us to do that. We'd have no reciprocal CDOT person coming forward. And in the past, there's not
been reports coming forward or much attendance from the people that have been assigned.
And researching it with CDOT, they don't know what it's about either.
And that was with not only the commissioner that I know, but also with staff at CDOT.
Ms McManus, you have your hand raised.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So, the sole purpose of that person was to interface with the CDOT
commissioners in putting together the once a year meeting that has been ongoing for as long as I've been
on the Board.
So it doesn't matter if someone is assigned to that. My team can still work with CDOT and put that
forward. And if that meeting is no longer needed then we can work on that as well. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. I get it now. Yeah, that was unclear to me. So I think that can always just fall to the
Chair of the Board who can then delegate to other people. So let's eliminate that off the list.
There's only one reason for it. So I don't think we need to have a separate committee just to do that. So,
OK. That's my prerogative, I guess. Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Mr Chair. I may have been looking at an older list. But is there still some sort of
function for the Jefferson Parkway?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is there? OK. I didn't know if that had dissolved or not. And similarly-VINCE BUZEK: Well, I think there is. Let me step back. Ms McManus, I don't have that list in front of me,
but I believe there was a Jefferson Parkway.
DEBRA JOHNSON: It's on package page 11 with all the committees in Jefferson Parkway. Public
highway authority is listed there as Shelley Cook and Marjorie Sloan being the designated-- OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: The purpose of my question was, does the Jefferson Parkway Authority still exist?
VINCE BUZEK: Well. That's a good question.
PEGGY CATLIN: That was the reason for my-MARJORIE SLOAN: Last year I was also the representative, and there was no meeting. Occasionally I
Google to see if I missed a meeting or missed notice. I think they haven't dissolved, but they're at least on
hiatus.
I also think it's funny that I'm the representative because they probably think I'm a mole on the Jefferson
Parkway Board. But I will do my best to represent RTD if they do ever convene.
PEGGY CATLIN: And then I had a question about another one of those committees.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Am I jumping the gun?

VINCE BUZEK: No. That's fine.
PEGGY CATLIN: There's one on C470, I think. Or I'm not really sure.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. You are the designee.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: For the E470 public highway authority?
PEGGY CATLIN: No. C470.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh. C470. Let me check. Jefferson County Parkway, E470. I don't see anything here for
C470.
PEGGY CATLIN: I might be mixing something up. Thank you. I didn't mean to-Yes, I am on the E470, and I had all morning today, trial for [INAUDIBLE]
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you. Treasurer Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Just one other note on those appointments. I don't know if it's got changed yet, but
we need to delete ACED. The organization does not exist in that name anymore. It's now ACREP.
ACREP.
I think, Vince, you probably are the rep to that. I think I might be alter. I'm on that exec committee, so I
don't need to be the rep. Wouldn't be probably appropriate.
VINCE BUZEK: So maybe when that comes out, Yeah. ACED. The name is now changed to Adams
County Regional Economic Partnership. ACREP.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for catching that, Troy.
OK. All right. So we're going to talk we're going to move into the ad hoc committee discussion. And we
can talk about any of this stuff.
So for 2022, we've got an audit ad hoc committee, and the redistricting ad hoc committee, which we
anticipate will be ending at the end of March.
I'm going to be adding a TABOR ad hoc committee at our Board meeting to start looking at that and
seeing what, if anything, we need to be doing with regard to the impacts TABOR will have on RTD in the
future.

Anybody want to share any additional information with regard to these committees? I know some of you
people are probably on these committees.
TROY WHITMORE: This is our chance to defend ourselves. I think they're all worthy events, and needed,
obviously. We've got two that are in action right now. So I got no heartburn whatsoever about them.
VINCE BUZEK: First Vise Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just was going to say I'm glad to hear the TABOR committee is being set up.
I was in the Advisory Committee for Reimagine the other day, and the consultants have done some great
work on TABOR and what the effect would have been had we had to put money back. And I was sort of
taken aback by how important that will be. So Thanks for doing that.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I think-- correct me if I'm wrong, but I think that had we been impacted by TABOR
previously, it would be in excess of $600 million we would have had to-LYNN GUISSINGER: That's my understanding. Over like a period of 12 or-- since 2008 or something.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. We've got that money just hanging around the building.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I don't think we'll miss it.
VINCE BUZEK: Definitely. Well, good. Well, good. I appreciate that. So any other comments on our ad
hoc committees? Anybody have any ideas of things you all would like to see addressed in some deeper
fashion?
If you do, you can let me know. But Second Vise Chair Catlin.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr Chair. I inquired of Melanie earlier as to the status of the DTP
litigation. And at one point a committee had been set up-- an ad hoc committee consisting of Doug
Tisdale and myself.
Do we need to formally dissolve that? Or is that still ongoing? It was an ad hoc committee for legal.
VINCE BUZEK: I don't know. I would defer to our General Counsel to find out whether an ad hoc
committee has a shelf life if it's not stated.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr Chair. It was not ever technically dissolved. But, really, that
committee, as I understand it, was put together to have two directors be hearing about how the litigation
was developing.
Since that trial completed and we are just waiting on the judge's decision, I don't know that there's really
any utility in continuing to have it. But certainly the Board, that's your prerogative if you wanted to do that.
The committee hasn't been meeting because there's just been no activity and anything to meet about.

PEGGY CATLIN: That was the purpose of my question. I didn't want to be derelict in my duties as an ad
hoc committee member, not having met for over a year.
VINCE BUZEK: So if the Chair gets to appoint ad hoc committees, can the Chair dissolve an ad hoc
committee? Can I just dissolve that committee right now?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, you can. And under the bylaws, any ad hoc committee that doesn't dissolve
at a date certain dissolves at the end of the year that it was put in place.
The one exception was the redistricting, which could do a Board action on to keep that intact through the
full process.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, so I really-- no action is necessary. Right?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks for the clarification.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And Treasurer Whitmore. Hand is up.
TROY WHITMORE: Just one quick thought. Certainly not needed to discuss. But we had our safety and
security ad hoc committee last year or '19, I can't remember.
Just a thought. Would that need to be something we think about with all of our Union Station struggles
and all that? I'm guessing at this point not because our staff is handling it very well. But just the thought
be up to Chair and Debra. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Whitmore. Great question. And thank you, Mr
Chair for providing me the opportunity to address it.
I would highly suggest that we do not convene an additional committee. I have been working in earnest
with a myriad of people from the City and County of Denver. And at this juncture, we're trying to
streamline to have intentional focus as relates to mitigating some issues.
Director Rivera-Malpiede has been engaged in those discussions, and has made a commitment to liaise
with all of you as we reconvene next week. I just had a meeting yesterday with the administration and
have another meeting on Monday.
So at this point in time, I don't think there is a direct need in relationship to that in regards to what we're
doing moving forward. But as I've made a commitment to the Chair, I have been keeping him apprised
and will do so in the course of my Board reports to all of you. My General reports.
And will advise if at a time there needs to be some type of ad hoc committee to address any mitigating
efforts that we are trying to put into place. Thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you Madam GM CEO. Director Rivera-Malpiede has indicated that she wants this
to be her laser focus for this coming year. And to the extent she's willing and able to do that and work with
our GM CEO, I'm all for it. So sounds good.
Any other questions before we move on? Any other discussion needed with regard to ad hoc committees
at this point in time?
OK. We'll move on to other matters. The first item under Other Matters is our retreat discussion. And I
know that bored office staff is trying to secure the venue for our retreat on March, 2006.
As soon as the location is finalized, the Board Office will email a placeholder reminder to the Board.
Anything else we need to be talking about with regard to the retreat? First Vise Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Thanks. I talked with Barbara this morning. And I guess an update from you,
Ms Johnson, would be helpful in terms of-- I think there's like a process for an on call facilitator or
something that we're working on.
I guess I'm just looking for an update. Are we're moving forward with posting the RFP? IS the scope of
work finalized?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, thank you very much for the question, Director Guissinger. I have not had any
conversations with anybody assembled virtually on the screen as it relates to the status.
You're making reference to on call contracting that is active. So I cannot speak to that in this form. That
was a separate effort that we could potentially leverage. But out of respect for open and fair competition,
it would not be appropriate for me to address that at this time.
But specific to the retreat, I do not know the status of any type of scope of work outside of the comments
that I provided to you and to the former Chair as well as to Ms McManus in December.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'm sorry if I misquoted or anything like that. Ms McManus, maybe you
and I could get together and just see where we are with the scope of work.
I think Chair Buzek was interested to see it. Is that right?
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. First Vise Chair Guissinger, if you could take the lead on that and make sure
that stuff is moving along, that'd be great.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sounds great.
VINCE BUZEK: Anything else on our retreat discussion? We're just going to have one this year, which is
kind of a change. We used to have two all the time, which-- I'll leave it at that. Anyway.

Next is our Government Relations discussion. General Manager Johnson, would you or your staff like to
discuss how this is going to be coming forward?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr Chairman.
For all those that are assembled, once again, Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
Director Buzek and I did have a conversation as we talked about the different qualifiers relative to this
committee and that we would have a formalized agenda item. And right now it's under other matters.
Recognizing that the General Assembly has convened and is in session, I do have Michael Davies on this
call that could provide a broad brush overview. As we go forward, we will provide a written report to all of
you as it relates to the activities that have been ensuing.
Quite naturally, there's quite a bit of discussion around some impending legislation. And I did disseminate
communique to all of you the latter part of last week as it pertained to that, and reached out to specific
members of the Board that represent the district in which there could be some implications.
So with that, I would like to ask Michael Davies, our Government Relations officer to provide a brief and
succinct update on Government Relations activities. Mr Davies, the floor is yours, sir.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, members of the Board. So for just a quick update on Government
Relations. Obviously last week, the General Assembly came into session and a number of bills are
starting to get introduced. Not many of them scheduled yet for hearings.
The two that I would flag that so far are introduced, one, General Manager Johnson mentioned. And that
is the town of Parkers inclusion or exclusion election bill.
And that is the same as last year's bill. It's being introduced by Senator Smallwood this year instead of
Senator Ransom. That's largely the only change from last year. And so we'll certainly be tracking that very
closely.
And then the other bill was a bill that went through the interim committees this summer and is being
offered by Senator Hansen's and a few other representatives as well. But Senator Hansen's the primary
sponsor there.
And it is to alter the existing tax credit that goes to employers who buy transit passes for employees. And
so largely the report over the summer was to look to modernize and see where they can make changes to
existing tax credits.
And this is-- it wasn't being utilized very much. And the hope behind this bill is to change that reform,
reform the tax credit, and see if we can make it a useful and well-utilized tax credit that does encourage
businesses to buy transit passes for their employees.

So those are the two state bills. At the federal level, we're certainly just tracking implementation of the
IIJA or the bipartisan infrastructure law. It's often referred to as both.
And largely FTA at this point is just trying to staff up. They do have a number of guidance and regulatory
questions they put out. And so RTD is certainly tracking those and making sure that we interact well with
the grant processes and regulations that come down from FTA.
And otherwise the full fiscal year '22 appropriations bill must be approved by Congress. And this is
important in respect to implementing the full funding figures of the IIJA.
Currently, the federal government is running on a continuing resolution that goes through late February.
And the hope is that Congress will get together, pass a full omnibus appropriations bill that will cover the
full year of FY22, and realize the IIJA funding levels.
Which, of course, creates that increase in the formula funding that we get from FTA to RTD. Happy to
answer any questions.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Davies, just clarification once again, if in fact there is not a full fledged
reauthorization bill, omnibus bill, we will not see the positive effects of the IIJA. So I just want to be clear
in reference to the CR.
I constantly get questions from the media, and we hear that in this sphere. That were anticipated to
receive all this money, but if Congress does not act, it's based upon the previous year's funding levels,
which would keep the status quo. Correct, Mr Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. That's correct.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So, thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks very much. And go ahead. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks, Michael. I think Michael's doing a great job on all of this. Troy and I are in
the Tuesday morning meetings. And I just thought people might be interested if you wanted to mention
where we are on the CRP fix as well.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, certainly. That at the federal level is included in largely the bills that have
passed through house and Senate separately. But because they both are in the authorizing language, it
was approved and authorizing through IIJA.
So that is there. And now the final step there is to basically get that actually included in the appropriation.
And that will also hopefully be a part of-- and a key part-- of the full FY22 omnibus package.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes.

VINCE BUZEK: Treasurer Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thanks, Chair. Michael, how long have you been with the agency here?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Almost a year. About 10 days short of a year.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. Well, to play on the beginning of First Vise Chair Guissinger's comment, I just
want to acknowledge Michael's skill set. He hit the ground running but he has sped up.
His acumen with our federal lobbyists is quite high. And it is definitely reassuring. He speaks their
language and understands that. And also is getting to know the players very quickly at the state Capitol
as well.
So I just wanted to say in front of Debra and this committee I really appreciate your efforts. You're doing a
good job for us. And I find a great deal of comfort in your skill set backing us up. So kudos.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you very much for the kind words.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. And Michael and I had a good discussion last week. And so
I've asked Michael to be present in all of our Executive Committee meetings to update us on our
Government Relations function.
Fortunately, we have the old-- and I mean not age wise, not chronologically-- we have the old government
Relations Committee as part of our Executive Committee. We have Treasurer Whitmore, First Vise Chair
Guissinger. And they're continuing to do their Tuesday morning briefings and all that.
So we'll be getting regular updates if there is something that everybody, Michael Davies thinks needs to
happen, they'll let us know. And we'll take it from there. Any other? GM Johnson, yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very much. And I do appreciate the acknowledgment of Michael
Davies. Basically, he does have the acumen that was needed.
And I know there was some trepidation and angst with him being outside of this area, but knew good and
well he could hit the ground running because what you know, you know, and you can easily bring yourself
up to speed and reference to the geographic region.
With that being said, one thing for certain that has been implemented during his tenure is a report that will
continue to be disseminated to all of you since we're back in session tracking the Bills.
And so I just wanted to clarify that will be ongoing. It will not cease. It will be supplemented as it relates to
these briefings that we have here so the full Board can be privy to what's happening at that level. Both
regionally, State, and at the federal level. So thank you.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. And in the past, we used to have the Government Relations
Committee give a report at our Board meeting, I think. Did we? And do we need to do something at our
Board meetings or not? Only as needed?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Buzek, if I may, I will confer and report back. Because I think-- case in point, I
have a General Manager report. As I spoke with Mr. Davies, about that would come and I would yield the
floor to him. So that can be a regular occurrence. I don't think it needs to be compartmentalized.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds great. No, that's great. Thanks. OK. Let's see. Anything further on Government
Relations? How this works with us the Executive Committee now kind of taking on that role? No? Good.
OK. I had some email communication with Director Jeff Dishell. And he talked about the possibility of
having the chat feature activated in our meetings and also the closed captioning feature. And is there
anyone that can help us understand pros, cons, whatever with regard to those things happening?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr Chair, I would say for Melanie Snyder a conversation had ensued as relates to
the chat feature, recognizing that there could be some implications with that. So Ms Snyder, if you could
address that please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you. So I was actually communicating with Barbara McManus today and
with Gabe Kristi and Katherine Grove in our Civil Rights Team. We'll take up that conversation again. And
we're happy to bring back some options to this group. I'll get a little bit more information about that.
VINCE BUZEK: Any sense of the timeline in responding to that so I can get back to Director Dishell?

MELANIE SNYDER: We can bring it before the committee next month if that's-- is that too long? We are
here at your pleasure.
VINCE BUZEK: If that's how much time you need, then that's fine. I'll let him know.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. If we have something that we can circulate via email, I could probably do that as
well.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Sounds good. Thanks so much for that. I appreciate that. Any other matters,
Secretary Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you for recognizing me, Chair.
I do have an issue I'd like to bring up. And first I'd like to add a little background to how it came up. And
that is the JeffCo directors. And we didn't mean to exclude your piece of Westminster as a Jeffco Director.
So now you're included in this.

But Directors Cook, Catlin, and I were interested in having a general discussion about how to better serve
the Jeffco County Community. And we plan to just have an informal meeting to discuss ways to improve
connections between RTD Directors and elected county and municipal officials. And reach an informal,
very general consensus on how to approach it.
My home in Golden is pretty much a midway point between Peggy and Shelley's homes. And much more
convenient than meeting at RTD offices downtown. And because of the Omicron variant, it didn't seem to
be a good idea to spend a lengthy period in a public place while we were talking.
So because there were three of us, we intended to comply with the Open Meetings Act requirements of
notice and availability to other Board members and the public.
But after discussing ramifications of this with the great help of General Counsel Snyder, I locked the door
and I didn't let Peggy or Sloan in, even though they were really hungry.
But based on counsel's comments, I understand that and discrete group of Directors meeting about an
identified issue is not within the customs of RTD.
And that another group had been told that such a meeting was unacceptable, and that it led to great
complications in discussions between staff and the group and amongst the group because, as we all
know, that gets lengthy, complicated.
And, in fact, fairly easy to not comply with the Open Meetings Act.
Ms Snyder also advised that both a Board governance manual and operating guidelines are to be
reviewed annually. Although no review was conducted in 2020.
So this led me through reading through the Board documents with a view to amending them by adding a
provision for an informal meeting of identified Directors on a designated issue in compliance with the
Open Meeting Act.
And in my review, I learned that the guidelines do expect Directors to act consistently with Board
established customs and practices. But also that for meeting purposes, Directors should engage in
discussions outside of and prior to meetings with fellow members in order to gain understanding, answer
questions, and solve problems that can be addressed without the entire Board.
So I am proposing this addition in a review of our Board documents. And while reading the documents I
realize that they contain many other provisions that are outdated, including a mission statement that
doesn't reflect the strategic plan. Description of our former committee structure. And no mention of the
land acknowledgment in the description of meeting practices.
I realized last night at our JEDI meeting, the staff is already proceeding with a review of these documents.
So I would just urge the Executive Committee to schedule this review. And I would be happy to work on it
in any capacity people would like me to.

That's it. I knew I took a long time, but I appreciate it. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Second Vise Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Sloan.

VINCE BUZEK: Peggy, is she frozen for everybody, or just me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think she's frozen.
VINCE BUZEK: We can't hear you, and your video image is locked. OK. Let's move on. If Peggy gets her
technical difficulties squared away, we'll call on her again.
I guess the question I would have to staff with regard to the annual review that we didn't do last year, how
has that gone in the past?
I seem to remember at one point when Director Tisdale was the Chair that he kind of took that under his
wing, but I'm not sure if that's accurate. If anybody has any historical reference, that would be great.
MELANIE SNYDER: Mr Chair, if I may.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: So I wasn't here at the time, but there was a resolution passed by the Board in 2019
that was following a retreat. And so that's the resolution that Director Sloan is talking about. And that's the
one where the Board revisited the operating guidelines and re-adopted those.
So it looks like it was Director Tisdale and Director Walker that were the Directors that were involved in
moving that forward.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So Director Sloan, would you be willing to work with staff in moving that forward this
year?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I would be happy to do that.
VINCE BUZEK: Consider yourself appointed to that role.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would be happy to help. I'd be happy to help if Director Sloan would like the help.

VINCE BUZEK: So there you go. Sounds great. Everybody OK with that? And Peggy's not here. Good.
Great. Sounds good to me.
Let's see. Director Sloan, you're not looking for a response today with regard to the informal meeting
thing. You think that's going to be resolved or discussed as part of the document modifications, right?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I suspect Peggy was going to comment on the informal meeting idea. But, I think it
can all be rolled into one project.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. OK. Yeah. Got it. I don't see Peggy coming back on. Has anybody heard from her?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Director Catlin, her computer died. She is-- I just sent her the information to
dial in.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Let's wait a minute for Second Vise Chair Catlin to come back in and see what she
wanted to say.
While we're waiting, does anybody have anything else they want to discuss or talk about? Other matter
wise?

TROY WHITMORE: Cue the Jeopardy music, I guess. Oh! There's Director Davidson.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, Erik Davidson. Director Davidson, please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Chair. Apologies for not being on video here. Actually, just a question
related to my raising my hand. I know this has come up a couple of times.
But with us moving to the new committee structure, do we have a formal agreement on other Director
participation in committees of which they're not a part, which I'm doing right now? So obviously not voting.
But in discussion items and questions, I guess I'm just wondering if we have an established protocol for
that.
VINCE BUZEK: I'll defer to staff, but my understanding is the Directors that are not a member of a
committee are welcome to participate but not to vote.
Ms Snyder, is that stated in the revised bylaws?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Mr Chairman. Bylaws do talk about that it's the committee members that vote.
And then we also had a conversation specifically saying that other Directors could participate as well as
attend the meetings.
VINCE BUZEK: Does that answer your question, Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It does. Thank you, Chair. Appreciate it. Thanks, Ms Snyder.

VINCE BUZEK: I am still not seeing Second Vise Chair Catlin. I'll give her just two more minutes. And
we're going to roll.

BARBARA MCMANUS: I have Director Catlin on my phone. She's going to make her statement to the
Board through my teams meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Barbara. And I apologize. I'm getting ready to throw my computer out the
window.
This is not important, but thanks for hanging on. I just wanted to say that there is also a little sliver of
Jefferson County that falls within Director Dishell's district.
There in fact are five of us that we thought we wanted to create an environment and get together with a
group of other elected officials in Jefferson County very similar to the NADA group that you all enjoy up
North.
So that's kind of what our intent was.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments, Second Vise Chair Catlin. Thanks for getting back in and
joining us. Great. OK.
With that said, are there any final comments under Other Matters from anybody? Seeing none, no further
discussion, the meeting is adjourned at 12.33 PM. Thanks, everybody for attending.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Bye, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Barbara, sorry about this.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No worries.

