Jul 12 2018 1200 PM Executive Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
DOUG TISDALE: If it's acceptable, I would go ahead and convene the meeting now.
BARBARA MCMANUS: She just arrived.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: Sorry about that.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, Madam Vice Chair, I will yield to you, since you are there in
person and on camera for the recording of this meeting. So I'll, if you won't mind, ask that you
take over the actual convening-- running of the meeting and I'll be here to chime in as needed,
OK?
NATALIE MENTEN: Sounds good.
JUDY LUBOW: So Doug, this is Judy, are you wearing a barrister's wig right now?
DOUG TISDALE: No, I've taken it off for the day-- no.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh cool.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so we have Doug on the phone, Judy on the phone.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska, Director Deadwyler.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so we're going to-- has this meeting been brought to order? No. All
right, so we'll bring this meeting to order. It's approximately 12:05, July 12th. And present, we
have Chair Tisdale on the phone, Judy-- Director Lubow, Director Folska, Director Deadwyler.
We also have Board member-- Jeff Walker, General Manager Genova, Barbara McManus, and
myself, Natalie Menten.
We'll bring this meeting to order and start with our July Board meeting agenda review. Everyone
has gotten a copy of this? Is that correct?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right.
DOUG TISDALE: Acknowledged.

NATALIE MENTEN: What?
DOUG TISDALE: Acknowledged.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Does anybody have any questions to start with on the draft Board
meeting?
JUDY LUBOW: Not I.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Not I.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so as we go through this-- we don't have any retiree awards this time.
Nothing notable on public participation. I'm sure we will get some comments on the fair review
process, which is published and really kicks off this next Monday, the 16th. Tonight, we do have
the call in.
DAVE GENOVA: The town hall.
NATALIE MENTEN: Town hall. And just curious-- who is going to be-- is that taking place
here or down at Roger Sherman's office?
DAVE GENOVA: Chair Menten, I don't know the location of that, I can get that for you. But I
believe that the people that will be involved in leading that town hall and doing the speaking and
the presenting portion will be Heather McKillop and Michael Washington.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Is Roger Sherman running that?
DAVE GENOVA: I'd have to get back to you on who's running the town hall. I asked that the
other day and I didn't get an answer yet.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Are Board directors welcome to-- I'm sure call in. Are they-DAVE GENOVA: Yes and that information was-NATALIE MENTEN: Of course, we'd review that and approve it if there's any changes to the
text. That's where they're going to refer to. Chair's report-- you're going to be gone, right, Chair
Tisdale? So I'll be presenting that is my understanding.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, that is correct Madam Vice Chair-- I will not be present on Tuesday
evening, nor will I even-- at that particular point-- probably have the opportunity to simply
monitor on the phone, because it would be quite late here. That said, if I have any special things
that I would ask your indulgence in having you share with the Board, I will get those to you in
advance. But in the mean while, I anticipate that the staff will be able to give you items that they
would like you to share and then, of course, you share whatever you choose.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. And then, General Manager's report. You'll be all
ready to go and don't need to note anything at this time?
DAVE GENOVA: Nothing to note right now.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. The only two items that we have are two consent unanimous items,
which is the approval of the ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) licenses and the approval of the
data content analysis software known as Record Crawler. Is there any item any one knows of that
will be requested to be pulled off to a recommended action-- for separate discussion I should say,
sorry? Nobody?
JUDY LUBOW: No.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is silent agreement there?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, silence is consent.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so then, we have no recommended action. There is no executive
session.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There is an executive session-DAVE GENOVA: It's not showing up on this packet-BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, it's not?
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's going to be related to the legal?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, if I may. Please, if I may.
NATALIE MENTEN: And cite the reason that we'll need to include if you don't mind, please.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, the general reason is for the Board of Directors to provide advice and
counsel in legal matters and negotiations. And essentially, what we will do is summarize for the
board in the executive session where we are in the negotiations process with Denver Transit
Partners (DTP) regarding their change in law claim and the opinion that we've received from the
non-binding dispute resolution panel.
And so, we'll summarize that for the Board. And then, what we believe our plan of action
moving forward to continue negotiations with Denver Transit Partners will be and get the board's
thoughts, opinions and advice and instructions on how you would like us to proceed. But we will
have an approach laid out for the Board.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Do any of you on the phone have any questions related to that?
And if not, then we will just amend this agenda to include that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's included on the official-- it's online. I don't know why the printout
has it missing.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: And Madam Vice Chair, if I may, this is the Chair. I do have a question when
that is and thank you for that clarification, Mrs. McManus, relative to the executive session being
included on the public agenda that is available for people, 'cause obviously, we want to ensure
that people have that notice. And may I confirm please that we did not have any separate
executive section this last Tuesday-- two days ago-- that this discussion will be the first
executive session discussion by staff with the Board relative to move those matters as identified
by General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that confirmation. I appreciate that. I have no other
comments on the agenda and would yield to other members on the phone.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: I don't have a question regarding the agenda, but I do want some
clarification on this [INAUDIBLE] thing. I keep getting these emails and I'm not sure what you
want us to do.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, we'll hold that for just a moment, Director Deadwyler, as we get past
this agenda discussion, as that would not relate to an item here. So if you don't mind, I'll hold on
that just a moment. Would that be all right with you?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yes, that would be fine. Thank you, Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: I will note we'll bring that up under other matters here for the meeting-this meeting itself. So are there any other comments or questions regarding the executive
session?
JUDY LUBOW: No.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, any items that we'll need to prepare for under old or new business
that should be noted at this moment? OK, I don't hear any. So I need a motion to move this
agenda forward with the clarification that the official record at this time includes the notice and
legal citation reason for the executive session. Do I have a motion?
[INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: [INAUDIBLE]

NATALIE MENTEN: All right, I did get Chair Tisdale there and I'm not sure who else.
JUDY LUBOW: Second-- Lubow.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, we have that on the record. Do we have approval to move this
forward? All say, I.
ALL TOGETHER: I.
NATALIE MENTEN: Anybody have any disagreement here, say, problem. Nope, don't have
anything. OK, so we're moving this agenda forward and we're all set for the meeting for July
17th, this next Tuesday. OK, so now that we've got that done on our agenda, we'll go to other
matters. Director Deadwyler, you had the question regarding Mrs. Amanda Chilton I think is
what you were referencing and the fact that we have been instructed to take note of possible legal
action regarding Amanda Chilton's request to retain a record from her past discussions with our
Public Open Records Department and board directors themselves.
So that's the gist of what I got is that we need to make sure that we retain all records related to
Ms. Chilton and her requests for quite a variety of items.
DAVE GENOVA: May I?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
DAVE GENOVA: I believe-- was that a litigation hold email that went out? OK, and then, yeah,
I think you properly described it then.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It also asks that if you're contacted directly, to refer all of that to
Derrick Black.
DAVE GENOVA: He's one of our attorneys.
NATALIE MENTEN: And that is the reason, because Rolf may be a party to it, so he is
distancing himself? Is that-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sure that's part of the reason.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So Director Deadwyler, I haven't received the communication except
last week, and then there was one about 48 hours before that. And they are continuing to follow
up with any Director who did not respond in the positive that they are retaining the records and
basically stating they've received the notice. So are you continuing to get requests to respond.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yeah. Who am I responding to?
BARBARA MCMANUS: To me.
NATALIE MENTEN: To Barbara McManus. And I thought that actually, the link was to the
legal department. But it needs to be a response, Barbara, that you understand not to destroy any
records related to Barbara-- to, I'm sorry, Amanda Chilton.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: [INAUDIBLE]. I guess I'm at a loss here, because those records
[INAUDIBLE].
NATALIE MENTEN: I can't state, because I don't know what she sent you directly. But I can
say in my own case, she has mailed me, over the years, multiple times, usually asking certain
questions. And they're unique type of letters-- let's put it that way.
So I can't say-- if you've ever been contacted by Amanda Chilton, and let's see, her email is-- I
can't think of it off the top of my head. But she would have asked you, why isn't there a link for
this public meeting? She would have asked about records regarding her suspension-- that's
specifically one of the discussions. And she would have sent you emails you would have
probably remembered.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yeah, she sent me [INAUDIBLE] anything from me personally.
[INAUDIBLE] with her name on it [INAUDIBLE].
BARBARA MCMANUS: The original email came from Ariane and she sent me a list of which
Directors had not responded yet. And I sent the email at the beginning of the week with
responses coming back to me so I could track that. And then, they're being forwarded to legal to
be placed as part of the hold.
DAVE GENOVA: So it's part of our process-- if I may-- whenever we get in some kind of of a
notice of legislation or claim, part of our legal process is that whoever may have received
information or been involved in any aspect of that, this is part of our formal process. We do
what's called a litigation hold. We send that out to whoever may have information. And
basically, the acknowledgement is, I've received the notice, I understand it and not to destroy or
get rid of any records.
So I think simply just acknowledging it is really all that most Board members really need to do,
because there probably hasn't been-- I'm just speculating-- there probably hasn't been that much
direct contact. Does that help, Director Deadwyler?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: [INAUDIBLE]
BARBARA MCMANUS: We need an email response.
DAVE GENOVA: And it could be as simple as, I've received it and I acknowledge.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: OK, got it. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, just this meeting is under other matters. Does that close all the
questions regarding the emails from Amanda Chilton? Whatever the wording was again. Is
everybody clear on that and is there any Board Director that needs more clarification?
JUDY LUBOW: This is Director Lubow. I don't destroy or terminate any RTD emails. I mean,
they're just there. So I assume then that's therefore acceptable to what these [INAUDIBLE].
DAVE GENOVA: That's fine.
JUDY LUBOW: [INAUDIBLE]. Yeah, OK. All right, I assumed that. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so I think we've got that closed up then. Does any other Board
member-- of the Executive Committee, on the phone, have any other matters relating to this
meeting at this moment?
JUDY LUBOW: I don't.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Nothing.
DOUG TISDALE: Nothing from me.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No.
NATALIE MENTEN: You don't have anything? All right, so since we have no other matters
related to this Executive Committee meeting, I will ask if you will agree in adjourning this
meeting?
JUDY LUBOW: I agree.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: I agree. I have one question if I may, and I apologize, and this is just if there's
anything that General Manager wants to share with us at this time-- if it's just the things that he
would report during the Board meeting, I wouldn't ask him to repeat that now. But if there is
anything special, I don't know of any, but I just give him the opportunity.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I was rude not to ask that. And I do have my own question of
Dave as to where we stand right now with A, because of the PUC's (Public Utilities
Commission)-- So I'll let you start with it if there's anything you'd like to add. And then, for me
personally, I'd like to better understand where we stand right now on A Line with the PUC's
approval and lay that out again. I know it gets tiresome, but so many steps.

DAVE GENOVA: No, there are. There are and it changes almost every couple of days. So thank
you for that opportunity. So on the University of Colorado A Line, yesterday on the Public
Utilities Commission docket, they had the Quebec crossing for final approval. And they did
approve that. We're still waiting on the written orders on that. We'll probably get that the end of
the week I would assume. They've been pretty quick about turning that around.
So that is, to just remind everyone, that's the last crossing to go through the final approval
process with the Utilities Commission on the University of Colorado A Line. So our next steps
then will be the grade crossing attendants or flaggers have been removed already from all the
other crossings on the A Line, and probably Monday, we will be removing the grade crossing
attendants on Quebec.
So before that can happen, we need to get the written order from the PUC. And then, once the
FRA (Federal Railroad Administration) sees that written order, then they give us a very brief
email or letter that says, we can remove the attendants based on the PUC removal. So the FRA
has been pretty quick to respond to that, the PUC has been pretty quick to get their orders out. So
we anticipate, the earliest would be Monday where we would remove the final flaggers.
Now, the next step on the A Line would be the quiet zones. So myself and Henry Stopplecamp
and Allen Miller and several people from Denver Transit Partners, next week, we will be
meeting with the Federal Railroad Administration. And we're anticipating we're going to meet
with the new administrator, Ron Batory, and then, key leadership people with the Federal
Railroad Administration. And one of the things we want to talk to them about, if we don't receive
some clarification from them in advance of that, will be the quiet zones.
But we've been having conversations, especially with city and county of Denver, and once we
remove the last set of flaggers, we're very interested in submitting what's called the notice of
establishment for the quiet zones. So if we file that notice of establishment, or when we file that
notice of establishment, then the FRA has a 21-day period to respond. If they don't respond,
indicating that they have concerns or we don't meet the requirements, then we establish the quiet
zones.
Now, we've sent in a couple different letters to the FRA regarding the quiet zones saying that we
feel we meet the requirements, this is why we feel we meet all the requirements. They have not
formally responded to those. We've sent another request to them just either last week or this
week. And then, we also spoke to the chief safety officer who heads up the safety board for the
FRA yesterday and we told him that we are probably going to submit these notice of
establishments maybe as early as Tuesday, at least for city and county of Denver.
One of the reasons we didn't go right to the notice of establishment and we sent the letters in
advance is we wanted to give the FRA an opportunity to formally tell us, we think you need to
do this or that, or there's been some discussion in the past that we might have to apply for a
waiver from constant morning time. What we wanted to do was try to give the FRA opportunity
to respond to these formal letters, so we didn't submit the notice of establishment and they say,
no, we don't agree. And then, it turns into a big political ballyhoo, you could imagine.

And so, we're still waiting to get the final word from FRA on the quiet zones. So I think that's the
summary of where we are with the University of Colorado A Line to date [INAUDIBLE]. Does
that answer your question?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. But let me ask-- so again, with the FRA and the 21 days to respond
once the real notice of established is sent-- if there's no response at all, it's almost like a
governor, nothing, it just goes?
DAVE GENOVA: That's my understanding. If they do not respond within the 21 day period, we
put the signs up that this is a quiet zone and then, we don't use the horn, under regular operating
circumstances, right? So the way the quiet zones work is, once a quiet zone is established, it just
provides relief that you don't sound the horn under kind of a normal operating condition. The
operator can use judgment, like, if they feel they need to use the horn for a safety reason, they
can. So it doesn't mean there will never be a horn.
The other thing, too, is, because of the technology we're using on the crossings, the wireless grid
crossing, or the wireless communication grid crossing technology links to our positive train
control (PTC) system, if we ever have a train that's not under PTC, which happens in a very low
percentage-- maybe 0% to 2% to 3% of runs, then they will have to use their horn if the PTC is
not engaged in activating the wireless, because it's a little bit longer of a warning time. It could
happen.
But these are kind of details-- this is what we anticipate will probably come out of the FRA
information. But until we actually see all of that, we won't know for sure. But those have been
the discussions to date. But I just wanted the board to know that, just because there's a quiet
zone, there's a potential that horns could be sounded, because the operator always has the
opportunity in the operator's judgment to provide a safety warning using the horn.
NATALIE MENTEN: Complete blizzard. Examples like that maybe. I think most people expect
that.
DAVE GENOVA: Or if there's a car-- like, if they're worried about a car encroaching the tracks,
or if there's a pedestrian or bicyclist that's in the crossing or something like that. Those are the
kinds of conditions I would anticipate they would use their horn.
NATALIE MENTEN: A question I've got is, do this at all-- I know we don't deal with this
enough on a regular basis to maybe be able to answer this. But does it seem a bit odd that the
FRA doesn't respond to some of these letters? Is that a concern?
DAVE GENOVA: I don't know if it's odd or not, because it's really not in their formal process.
It's just part of our continuing way in trying to work with them in a very proactive manner and
trying to advance things as quickly as we possibly can.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Directors on the phone and Chair, did you have any questions for
Dave regarding to that update?

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I don't have any questions regarding the update, but thank you, that was
very informative. I do have a question and a point of interest when it's appropriate.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, let me just make sure that Director Deadwyler does not have
any questions.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: I have no questions.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so that closes that up on that. Let me continue with Director-Chair, sorry, General Manager Genova's-- any updates? And then, I'll go back to you Director
Folska.
DAVE GENOVA: The other issue I just want to bring forward actually is, I think, really positive
news in our conversation just yesterday with the chief safety officer of the Federal Railroad
Administration. We are expecting the approval on multiple train testing for the G Line any day.
We know the letter is being processed. And so, their process works-- a staff person writes the
letter, and it's got to go through their legal review and then their, final safety board review.
But I am hopeful that we'll have that by the end of this week, today being Thursday. But that's
what FRA has been leading us to believe.
NATALIE MENTEN: And that would be in response to the letter sent nine plus weeks ago?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, this has been in response to the request to operate multiple trains for
testing on the G Line. Now, FRA has come back and asked for additional information of Denver
Transit Partners. So it hasn't been that they haven't responded to it, it's been, they've been waiting
on additional information, additional testing, different kinds of format for the information from
DTP. And there was some concern over the first round of data, the consistency of the data, so
they were wanting more test runs and things like that.
So that's why it's taken time to get to this point. It's not just been taking them this long to decide.
There's been a series of asking for more information to reach this decision point.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is there, for me, and reading is where my brain really gets things-- is there
like a written log of all this stuff that somebody could look up?
DAVE GENOVA: Not-- We'd have to generate it.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: I mean, we have all the documentation, because a lot of that would be like,
emails, or we have a teleconference and they ask for the information. But it's just been a back
and forth process.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: And that's not uncommon.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Did you have anything else to add?
DAVE GENOVA: That is all I have for today.
NATALIE MENTEN: Directors on the phone, do you have any-- or Chair-- questions about
that?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: None.
DOUG TISDALE: No ma'am, thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
JUDY LUBOW: Uh-uh.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No.
NATALIE MENTEN: No. OK, so any other updates, Dave?
DAVE GENOVA: I have none, thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Folska, let's go ahead and go to your question.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, so just out of curiosity, this question is for General Manager Genova.
I noticed that LA Metro has created awhile ago, I think, a new position for a chief innovative-innovation officer. Have you guys considered doing something similar here at RTD?
DAVE GENOVA: We've considered it. We do have our Division of Continuous Improvement
and Innovation. One of the things that we are doing is, every week-- the senior leadership team-we dedicate one hour every week to talking about just innovative ideas. We call it Transportation
Transformation. We're talking about the different kinds of topics leading into, what is the future
of transportation? What are the different kinds of mobility methods that we might want to be
engaging in? So we're having a very lively innovative discussion every week. But we've not
created a new position that solely is the title of innovation.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, but are you considering it?
DAVE GENOVA: It's a possibility. Another area that I'm considering looking at is also in the
area of designating one particular position for mobility. But it's things that we're still talking
through.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, thank you. I'm just interested. Also, I'm not sure if you all received
an email from communications awhile ago. But just to remind you, Rocky Mountain PBS did, on
their arts district, a piece on RTD and arts [INAUDIBLE]. Do you recall that?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, so that piece has been nominated for an Emmy. Did you know that?
DAVE GENOVA: I didn't know that.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. So I'm glad I'm sharing this with you. And it's pretty exciting. And the
Emmy's will be held at Wings Over The Rockies this Saturday night. So it's a huge, huge
accomplishment and a tremendous honor. And this is something that-- it's a national award. But
[INAUDIBLE]. So I just thought you should know that and maybe send an email to perhaps the
rest of the Board, so they sort of be excited [INAUDIBLE]. But I think it's a pretty groovy honor.
Anyway, just to be nominated, it's a huge honor. If we win it-- [INAUDIBLE] produced it. He's
the executive producer for Arts District for Rocky Mountain PBS.
DOUG TISDALE: Huzzah.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DAVE GENOVA: So it's Rocky Mountain PBS that produced it. And they're the nominee.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, but it's the piece they did on Art TV that got them the nomination.
DAVE GENOVA: OK, I'll follow up with that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, it's a big deal. It's exciting.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, is that all. OK.
JUDY LUBOW: That's all.
NATALIE MENTEN: Any other matters then? No? All right, I'll ask for adjournment.
Everybody-DOUG TISDALE: Move to adjourn.
NATALIE MENTEN: Somebody going to second that?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second. All in favor.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, aye.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Aye.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Aye.
JUDY LUBOW: Aye.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, meeting adjourned. Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
[INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: When you run the meeting, we get done in 39 minutes.
NATALIE MENTEN: That was slow. All right, bye. Yeah, considering I was 10 minutes late, I
guess that's not bad.

