2023-12-20
Audit Committee Meeting
BOBBY DISHELL: Good afternoon. The Wednesday, December 20 Audit Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 2:01 PM. I'd respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this afternoon. Please note, the committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
At this afternoon's meeting, we are providing communication access real time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the board office, at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of
this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
today's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press
star 6.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Brendel.
JIM BRENDEL: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: And Mr. Ollenberger.
JOHN OLLENBERGER: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I am here. For the record, I see that we also have Director Guzman with us.
Thank you for joining us. Just quickly make sure. Great.
I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your
phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you
would like to be contacted regarding your public comment please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.

Mr. Kroll, I don't see any virtual hands raised. Do you have any on your end?
JACK KROLL: I do not, Chair Dishell. And we did not receive any public comment via email in advance of
this meeting.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. With no participants in the queue, we will close public comment
period at this time.
Before we move into our one discussion item for our meeting today, I want to remind everyone that our
time is limited to 90 minutes total and that we are meeting today to wrap up our internal audit update from
November. In addition to our internal audit update, we have an executive session that we will adjourn into
that we need 30 to 45 minutes to effectively complete. As such, I'm going to do my best to move our
discussion along and ask that we all remain conscientious of our time constraints.
For the sake of the record, I note that Chair Guissinger has joined us. For our internal audit update, I'd
like to ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to present this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Dishell, and good afternoon. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial
Officer. And I would like to introduce Matt Marino from RubinBrown, as well as Dave Haronik, who will
continue the presentation. So Matt, the floor is yours.
MATT MARINO: Thank you, Doug. Good afternoon. Thank you for allowing us to have a second try at
finishing the communications with regard to the internal audit. I will touch on a couple items from the
agenda.
We didn't update the overall update as far as where we're at in the different audits we have conducted.
We continue to be on track with issuing both the revenue and non-revenue vehicle internal audits for Q1
of 2024. And then our plan, as far as the audit plan, has not been modified. So the plan we talked about
during the November meeting of this committee has not really updated.
We do continually evaluate all this and make sure that we're providing the highest value to RTD as far as
relevant information. So we do want to remind everybody that we do have the ability to update the audit
plan if we see fit, but we are going to continue proceeding with that.
When I look at the agenda, we did discuss all but one of the ITGC, IT General Controls,
recommendations, except for the few that were redacted. So we did not get to recommendation 11, which
was one that was not one of the redacted ones. So I was going to go through that, if everybody wants to.
Or do we want to proceed with going-- we'll go with that. I see several nodding heads.
So View. I'm hoping you're seeing full screen. OK. So this is the last of the recommendations with regard
to the ITGC over Oracle. This one has to do with SOC I Type II reports. So I know I'm using acronyms,
but basically that is a report that's provided by service providers that the controls that are used within a
service provider are operating effectively.
So the observation that came out of this audit is that we were made aware that there were SOC I Type II
reports. However, we did not evidence review by RTD of those SOC I Type II reports. And so the
recommendation is that, obviously, if we're obtaining those, it's important to review those and make sure
that we know any deficiencies that might be noted in those reports and that we're also providing or
implementing the different controls we need to on our side to be using those services of the different
service providers.

A corrective action plan was provided by cybersecurity staff. And they're going to work on making sure
that they obtain those on an annual basis and that they are also reviewed. And so that planned target
date is March 31 of 2024, which is just a little bit over 90 days away from today.
So any questions with regard to observation 11?
OK. So that is the last of the recommendations that we're going to discuss in normal non-executive
session. As a reminder, several of the recommendations under the IT General Controls audit were
deemed to be very sensitive in nature. And so we would entertain the motion to go to executive session to
discuss those, if we have no further comments on the other items.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Mr. Kroll, I see you have your hand up. And I think it's that we have other
matters first and then executive session. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is not with regard to the IT but rather the audit reports that
we saw in October. And I'm just wondering from staff, I know that there were a couple of things that were
scheduled for completion on December 31 of this year, and I'm just wondering if those are on track and if
they are, if we will be getting any kind of summary update of where we are on those action items. And I'm
referencing particularly the contract, I think, contracting and procurement report that was supposed to be
done.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. I see Ms. Johnson has her hand raised. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you very much, Director Catlin, for
the question. Yes, staff is working on those items and we will be ensuring that we provide updates. If I
recall, we talked about the manner in which we could be doing those going forward. And so we will confer
with you all on the best vehicle in which to provide that information, recognizing the audit schedule
perhaps is written communique and that precedes an audit committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, Mr. Chair. I know that there are non-Audit Committee members on the board
who are interested in particular in a more granular level of the contracting and procurement process. And
I know that it was recommended that there be a tracking mechanism put in place. And that was
scheduled to be put in place by the 31st. So I think that there perhaps would be other Board members
that would be interested in seeing what that looked like. That's all.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Just with any of the board materials, they always go to all board members and not
just committee members. So I should have qualified that in my response, because it wouldn't just be
disseminated solely to this committee. But recognizing if there was a broader interest, then we would
work in tandem to ensure we were meeting the needs of the Board.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I just know that that particular tracking mechanism has been asked about in
the past. And so I was just wondering if that was on track. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Are there any other comments or questions from the committee or other board
members in attendance with respect to audit observation 11 on the ITGC audit?

Seeing no further comments or questions from the committee and our attendees, I'll now move to Other
Matters. I have one item I'd like to discuss under Other Matters. At our November board meeting, many
Directors indicated an interest in seeing an improvement to how RTD budgets for and executes on capital
projects.
I'd like to get the committee's thoughts on asking for some ad hoc audit hours to be spent on looking into
the capital project budgeting and execution process at RTD. I've previously discussed this matter with our
Chief Financial Officer, Doug MacLeod, and our Chief Audit Executive, Matt Marino, and now would like
to hear from you all as to whether you all think this is a valuable exercise.
The end goal here would be to help RTD improve in this area on a look-forward basis. And if there's any
Directors who would like to weigh on this, just want to get some consensus on whether we should move
forward here or how.
Yeah, Mr. Ollenberger.
JOHN OLLENBERGER: I would just say that I think it's a worthwhile endeavor, especially given the
capital intensive nature of the RTD and some of the assets that are purchased, to go through this. I would
probably ask how many hours we're planning on using out of the ad hoc budget. But other than that, I
think it sounds like a good audit to do. And I guess we're calling it ad hoc. Would this be more or less a
full internal audit? Or are we thinking about specific procedures and limited scope?
BOBBY DISHELL: Good question. What would your thoughts be? I think, just to add some background-Mr. McLeod and Ms. Johnson both have their hands raised. I think staff time is something where we've
certainly heard they need time to implement the audits that we just got back. So I would lean probably
towards limited scope, based on that conversation.
And also recognizing that components of the capital program are going to come to light through our
district revenue and non-revenue vehicle audits, I believe-- Mr. Marino can keep me honest there. And so
I'll go to Ms. Johnson, and then maybe it sounds like it might be helpful to hear from Mr. Marino sort of
what components we are already going to cover in the current audit plan. And maybe that'll help provide
some fodder for conversation. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Dishell, and I greatly appreciate the context
around in which you presented this item. I recognize that you did have an opportunity to meet with CFO
McLeod and Mr. Marino. If you could extend the professional courtesy to me as the CEO to have a
broader understanding of what the path is, recognizing the allocation of staff time, I would appreciate that
accommodation, because I have yet to have the opportunity to engage with you all specifically on what it
is you're seeking.
So if that could be taken into consideration prior to making any determination to the path forward, that
would be most appreciative. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, of course. Are there any other thoughts? Yeah, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. I think it's interesting, certainly in concept. I just wanted to-one clarifying question and a more general question.
So the clarifying question, is this, I know you're saying looking at a go-forward basis, but would the idea
be to look at what procedures have been in place, audit our process, and then use an audit to make

recommendations for-- I guess, would you mind, I think maybe it's along the lines of Mr. Ollenberger's
question of, it would be limited in scope and are there specific policies that we would be looking at here?
And I think maybe that leads into my more general question, which was, if you wouldn't mind just
providing some context regarding some of the discussion that you did have with Mr. Marino and Mr.
McLeod on this, maybe the two can kind of go together, just a little bit more context might be helpful. I
think this sounds good. I just want to make sure I'm clear on what the mission would be.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, absolutely. So I think coming out of the November board meeting and prior,
there was a lot of concern from directors on the processes we go through for, I think, A, budgeting, but B,
specifically with relation to budgeting capital programs and capital expenditures, and specifically that
carryforward budget, and when, where, and how we decide to move a project forward or move a project
back, and what systems and processes we use or don't use in order to do that.
I also want to name that I believe staff has processes and process improvement in place specifically with
respect to this, given the recognized need for it to exist. And so there's sort of a lot of moving pieces. And
I think this falls sort of into the bucket of, does it make sense to move forward with a limited scope audit
now on what processes do we have and are we following them, or does it make more sense, I think, to
wait? And Mr. McLeod can speak more eloquently to what exactly staff is planning, should he want to. Or
should we wait until that's done and then audit against that?
Mr. Marino, Mr. MacLeod, is that sort of a fair recap of our conversation? Yeah, Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Dishell. Yes, that is a fair recap of our conversation. And if I might
propose that Mr. Marino and Mr. Haronik and myself get together and look at some procedures that they
might be-- based on the feedback that we received from the board at the November 28 meeting and prior,
and based on where we would like to get with our presentation of budget numbers-- and come back to
this committee with a proposed scope of work, as well as a number of hours, if that would be OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: I see Director Ruscha has joined us as well, for the sake of the record. I think on my
end, that would be good as well. I do want to make sure that prior to saying yes, that sounds good, that
we honor GM/CEO Johnson's request as well that we're all looped in and we're all deciding whether this
makes sense together. So provided she's there too, or she has your designation, that makes sense to
me.
How do others on the committee feel about that sort of proposed path forward? Yeah, Mr. Ollenberger.
JOHN OLLENBERGER: Well, I guess I'll just kind of amend my last comment that I thought it was a good
idea. I still think it's a good idea, but if management is in the process of revising this right now, I would
recommend holding off. I don't see a point in auditing what's been done in the past unless we think there's
misappropriation or fraud or some good reason to audit what's been done in the past.
I think we should let them revise the process and then maybe come in after that process has had a few
months of, or six months or whatever, of movement, so we can have something to audit after that. The
only caveat that I would say to that is sometimes internal audit will come help develop the process or look
at the old process and make recommendations to help implement the new process. So that's something
that people can consider as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I would-- I don't want to say approve-- but I would be in favor of Mr. Haronik
and Mr. Marino and Mr. MacLeod working with Debra to develop a scope of work, if they think it's
necessary at this time. And it could be very limited. And then proceed with the changes that staff is
considering right now. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Dishell. And I appreciate all the comments that
have been provided, due to the fact that we as a management and leadership team just had a meeting
relative to our capital project development process just last Friday. And there was a myriad of things that
we have underway that really are going to commence in a robust fashion in January.
So to Mr. Ollenberger's point, yes, there's a point where there would be great benefit going forward, and
that's why I made the comment in which I did, because I wasn't certain that this committee was aware of
what has been taking place. So just wanted to ensure that my comment was taken with the intent in which
I was providing it. So thank you very kindly. And I think it landed in the manner in which I intended.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for all the comments. Appreciate it. I think to Mr. Ollenberger's point, a look
back would help, if we have these changes taking place. I think what might help the committee, certainly it
would help me, would be to get an idea of, just as, Ms. Johnson, you were alluding to, where we are in
the process, where it starts to serve the agency that an audit might plug in, what we need to be auditing.
I think this may drift into the scope of work of the Finance and Planning Committee. But it might be
helpful, if it would serve this committee, to have a just high level understanding, not now, but perhaps at a
future meeting, of where we are in that process. And if Mr. Haronik and Mr. McLeod are going to meet on
this topic, perhaps they could share not only their thoughts on this topic and the timing of when an audit
might be useful, but also just, Ms. Johnson, where we are in that process of making changes and what
some of those changes are. I think that would certainly help me understand a little bit more about when
this might be appropriate.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Any other questions or comments? Yes, Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Well, thank you, Mr. Chair. So I just had a process question and wondered maybe if
the RubinBrown team might be able to speak to. As we think about when this committee and then
ultimately the board decides to take on an ad hoc audit, understanding that the audit plan is developed
through a risk-based process, right. We have that methodology in place. We do a risk assessment. Is
there anything that this committee should be thinking about as they're determining how to frame how ad
hoc audits will be identified going forward?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Mr. Marino. That might not be why you raised your hand.
MATT MARINO: I'll try and take both at once. I will say that the revenue and run revenue audits will hit on
some of the elements of how information is gathered and how it is utilized within the organization. So that
when the statement was made earlier that the already occurring audits might provide some context on
some areas, they will hit on some of that, as far as what sort of data is collected on maintenance, when is
something due for replacement, all that sort of stuff, which would ultimately feed into your capital
budgeting. So that is that part of it.

And then we should probably default back to our risk-based approach. And I do appreciate the feedback
of if there's some concern around the overall process, maybe understanding, number one, obviously it's
large in magnitude, but also there's the likelihood of something could occur or not occur. And so we
probably should go back and do the risk-based approach to decide if it's worthy using audit hours, if that
makes sense.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you, Mr. Marino. Apologies, I think I may have accidentally called you
Mr. Haronik. Mr. Haronik.
DAVE HARONIK: I would just add that one of the intentions of providing the ad hoc hour bucket, if you
will, is to respond to risk that comes up quickly. So if this was deemed as something that the organization
felt that could add value and help get ahead of certain risks that were identified or are suspected of, I
guess I should say, so we could use that bucket pretty freely or pretty quickly then.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Mr. Marino, I see your hand is-- no, now it's gone.
OK. I think hearing all of this, it sounds like on the next steps category, there's work that's being done,
great work that's being done, that updates will go to the Finance and Planning Committee. I know our
next meeting is in February. So to the extent that those updates would implicate audit, I think it would be
helpful just to get a brief update at the February Audit Committee meeting.
In the interim, I'll leave it to our Chief Audit Executive, our Chief Financial Officer, our CEO and their
respective teams to meet in the interim and decide, is the scope of work and additional audit hours helpful
to refining this process? Is it not? I think the one ask I would make is that in either event, if it's, hey, we
don't think a scope of work is necessary, that you do come back and sort of say, here's why we aren't
recommending an additional scope of work. That way, we at least can tie a neat bow on the process.
Not that this is a vote or a formal action, but can I just get a head nods one way or the other if that sounds
good to folks? Great.
Are there any other matters to discuss? OK. At this time, the next Audit Committee meeting is scheduled
for Thursday, February 15, 2024. At the February 15 meeting, among other items, we expect to hear an
update from our external auditors, Plante Moran.
In a moment, the committee will meet in executive session to discuss specialized details of a security
arrangement. I would like to append the motion to move into executive session to state that the
committee meeting will be deemed adjourned after it adjourns into the executive session. For public
transparency, this means that once the committee moves into executive session, the main meeting will be
adjourned.
I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following. Pursuant to Section
24-6-402(4)(d) CRS, specialized details of security arrangements, and Section 2472-204(2)(a)(VIII)(A)
CRS, specialized details of physical and cyber assets of critical infrastructure, protective measures,
emergency response plans or system operational data of such assets that would be useful to a person in
planning an attack on critical infrastructure, for presentation of information technology general controls
audit observations and corrective plans-- corrective action plans.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved. Director Catlin is the movant. Is there a second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second, Davidson.

BOBBY DISHELL: I hear Director Davidson as the second. Are there any no votes on this action?
With five in favor and zero opposed, the motion carries. For all those who are expected to attend, would
you please move into the other room at this time?

