2020-11-12 Executive Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Committee meeting, to order. It is Thursday, November 12th,
11:33.
OK, I'm going to start again since we're being recorded. I heard two more folks join in. Could
you please tell me your name? Hello?
TROY WHITMORE: Angie, this is Troy. I'm on the meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, thank you, Director Whitmore. I'm sorry. Am I getting
feedback now? Yeah, I am. All right.
DOUG TISDALE: Madame Chair, I don't know if you're on the computer, and you can see me,
but I am present in the meeting, as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you, sir. You know what I'm going to do? OK, let me
go ahead and start again. I'd like to call to order the Executive Committee Meeting for Thursday,
November 12th 2020. It is now 11:34 AM. I have present First Vice Chair Peggy Catlin, Second
Vice Chair Shelley Cook, Secretary Buzek and Treasurer Lynn Guissinger. In addition, I have
Director Whitmore and Director Tisdale. And then also on the line is our staff, John McKay, Ms.
McManus, our General Council Melanie Snyder, our new CEO, Deborah Johnson, and Bill
Sirois. Did I miss anybody?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten is also on the call, thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Lewis is on the call, I believe.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis? OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I am here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, good. Thank you. Thank you, ma'am. All right so-PAULETTA TONILAS: Madame, Pauletta Tonilas is also listening in, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. So we have our AGM of Communications,
Pauletta Tonilas, on the phone, as well. Thank you all for joining us today for the Executive
Committee agenda. The first thing that I would like to do is to get approval for the November
Board meeting agenda. Do I have an approval?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do I have a second?

SHELLEY COOK: Shelley Cook, second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Is there any discussion on the agenda? Hearing
none, I'm going to go in to other matters. Under other matters, we have the Accountability
Committee update. Treasurer Guissinger, I'm going to turn this over to you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Give me one second here to get back where we are.
NATALIE MENTEN: Wouldn't you normally vote to move the agenda. I don't know I heard a
vote.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's a good question. Are we voting on the agenda, Angie?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hold on. I'll go back. We have a first by Secretary Buzek, and a
second by Second Chair Cook to approve the November Board agenda. All in favor? I'd like to
just-- Do I hear any noes? Hearing none. The agenda is approved for the November Board
agenda.
OK, now, under other matters, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, Thank you I just sent-- like a second ago-- John McKay the proposal
that Elise Jones and Rutt Bridges had been working on. Part of this has been given to the-- I'm
trying to remember if part of this actual document has been given to be Accountability
Committee, or if it's still-- Certainly, it's still subject to their approval. One of the things the
Accountability Committee is looking at-- They are authorized to do an optional interim report at
the end of December of this year. And then their full report is due in July.
And one thing that they thought would be helpful [AUDIO OUT] part of an interim report with
legislative session coming up is suggest changes to the RTD statute that may help RTD. And the
goal is, as we've [AUDIO OUT] over the-- at various points is to provide flexibility in several
things. And there is a document that I can send out. I just haven't actually fully read it since then
they made a few changes. And we just got it a few minutes ago. But first one is farebox recovery,
and, again, we'll send this out. John, if you have it and can share you screen.
[AUDIO OUT] I've got it.
But either way, I'll just carry on and talk about it. They want to remove the 30% requirement that
we have farebox recovery as a measure. One thing that's just been added is-[STATIC]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Someone just joined, and I don't believe they're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, [STATIC] everybody can mute, please. That'd be helpful.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So then they would remove--

[STATIC]
Yeah, this is really-- if we can mute everybody, that would be helpful. [STATIC] They would
remove the 30% farebox requirement [STATIC]
TROY WHITMORE: I can't hear anything.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, this is-BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. There are a number of calls that are
dialed in that are not on mute. 1727, 2340, 0184, 3568, 2137 are not on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can we try to talk louder?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McManus, do we have the ability to mute them manually
here, or no?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I've just requested that of John McKay.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Shall I try again?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, there. You sound much better.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, John, if you could maybe go up a little bit on the screen here. So the
farebox recovery idea is to remove the 30% requirement, as we've discussed in the past. It's both
potentially limiting if RTD wanted to make some changes in fares and in all of that, but even
more, it's just meaningless because of the way it's defined to include grants and other things.
Then on that provision, there's just a new addition that, again, I haven't fully read it. But the
district shall provide-Go up a little more, please, John. We can see. Now, I'm sorry, go down into the farebox recovery
language. It's the cost efficiency of transit services. Yeah, a little below that. So they were
talking about adding, "The district shall providing in its financial reporting operating costs,
ridership, and operating costs divided by ridership as measures of the cost efficiency of services
provided. The district shall provide in its financial reporting estimated total carbon emissions,
based on fuel consumption of transit vehicles divided by ridership as measures of the
environmental impact of services provided."
That's all things we haven't seen. And so I guess I don't know how much detail to get into here,
since I haven't been able to get it out to you. We'll send this out afterwards and then, of course,
would like comments from staff, from Bill, Bill, Melanie, and Debra. What they're looking for,
what the Accountability Committee is looking for is RTD's comments at this point. And,
ultimately, when they come out with a report, the Accountability Committee agreement says that
the RTD Board will either approve recommendations, or will give reasons why it doesn't.

I guess what I'm suggesting is that that could happen by bringing this to the December 1
Communications and Government Relations meeting and then taking it to the Board meeting in
mid-December. Potentially, we could get it all done by then if they get us a report in time. But I
think if we can bring this up in other matters on Tuesday, just to get comments from the Board,
get this out to the Board and get comments, that would be helpful so that we can get back to
them in a very timely way, since they want to get this done before the legislative session starts.
Now-PEGGY CATLIN: Sounds good.
LYNN GUISSINGER: If this sounds good, I'll just go ahead and go through some of the other
changes, and then we can talk. I'll try to keep this from being too long. Second statute they're
looking at is the provision of retail and commercial goods and services in district transfer
facilities, reviewed as the TOD statute. And they are taking out some of the requirements. John,
let's see. If you can go down to the next proposed edits section. It starts-- yeah, there.
You can see the changes. They are "The use of a transfer facility for the provision of retail or
commercial goods or services, or for the provision of residential uses or other uses shall not be
permitted if the use would reduce transit services." And they're proposing to take out, "would
reduce the availability of adequate parking for the public or for uses involving the provision of
retail or commercial goods or services would result in a competitive disadvantage to a private
business reasonably near a transfer facility engaging in the sale of similar goods or services."
And then they would add in this section 5. This one is also new that I hadn't seen until today-"Any development of any portion of a transfer facility made available by the district for the
provision of retail or commercial goods or services, or for the provision of residential uses or
other uses shall be subject to all applicable local zoning ordinances, except for parking
requirements, which will be established by RTD. RTD may also, at its option, charge fees for
parking at district parking facilities."
So I believe that those all are intended to provide more flexibility. The view is that-- and my
understanding from conversations with the staff-- is that the TOD statute is not in desperate need
of being changed, but again, the question is, do we have any concerns with these changes? They
seem to me to be pretty good. Then let's see. I'm not sure that all my pages printed here.
"Limited authority to charge fees for parking. Proposed edit, we recommend deletion of the
entire section. Note that RTD's option to charge fees for parking is now established--" Oh, they
just put it in the previous section. "RTD may also, at its option, charge fees for parking at district
parking facilities." And the discussion there with the Accountability Committee, and I think with
all of us, is that we don't anticipate big changes anytime soon, or at all, from the Board in terms
of raising fees, things like that. But the idea is that the Board really is the one that should be able
to manage RTD's [INAUDIBLE] staff, manage RTD's assets in that way.
If local government wants certain changes, for instance, if Boulder wants to do something to
discourage SOVs, and-- I'm making this up, whatever-- and other parts of the district don't want
to. It gives us more flexibility to work with our local governments to manage parking if we need

to move people around, things like that. And let's see, the final one-- Again, I apologize. I haven't
really had time to look at this. "Competition to provide manicure service within the Regional
Transportation District."
I believe that the only changes here, yeah, if you look, proposed edits, section II, "The district
may implement a system under which up to 58% of the district's vehicular service is provided by
a qualified private businesses," and they've added in, "nonprofit organizations or local
governments pursuant to competitively negotiated contracts." And then down in 3a, below,
they've also added in the nonprofits and local governments.
So we certainly-- I'm not looking for final feedback. We'll send this out to everyone, but if you
have any thoughts right now, if you're OK, Melanie and others, if you're OK with the process of
raising this to the Board for comment on Tuesday. And any comments on the content would be
helpful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger, I have a Second Vice Chair Cook with a
hand up. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks, Chair. Lynn, just to clarify, would they welcome, in addition to
comments on the proposed, or identified changes, would they welcome suggestions for other
changes that we might have? I was thinking about the TOD, that Bill's group might have ideas
for other things that would help us in that respect.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, they would welcome that. Whether they'll end up getting adopted, I
don't know. But right now, Rutt Bridges and Elise Jones are kind of doing the first drafting. And
I think that they would like to hear RTD's comments and additions and deletions. Troy, jump in
if I've missed anything, you want anything.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Bill Sirois has his hand up on that comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, and I also want to welcome Bill Van Meter to the meeting,
as well. So, Troy, do you want to go first, and then we'll let Bill Sirois speak?
TROY WHITMORE: No, I wanted to make sure that the Dueling Bills got to speak on the TOD
matter.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [LAUGHS] OK, Mr. Sirois.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. Just wanted to speak-- couple things. One, just
looking at the new added language, I do have some concerns because I think the way it's worded,
it could easily be interpreted that we don't have to adhere to local zoning requirements on
parking, which I think from a local jurisdiction perspective, could be a big issue. So I maybe
that's not the intent of what the change is, but I don't think that is going to garner a lot of support
on the local jurisdictions side.

Generally, I'll just state what we stated before, we don't think there's something-- the way the
language is right now, it does sound kind of limiting. But it has, so far, not limited our ability to
do TOD. And we were trying to be conservative in suggesting that we not need to change
anything, just because of past experience with these kinds of processes, where we've when we've
proposed changes, things that have been added have kind of cancelled out the positive changes
that we'd see.
So that that's just a perspective. The original change, I think we are generally OK with, just
making sure that it's not taken out of context, and not anything added to it. But the latest change,
I'm not really that comfortable with, actually, as worded.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, than you. Director Cook, you still having your hand up. Did
you have an additional comment? OK. Director Menten? Director Menten, I think you're still on
mute.
NATALIE MENTEN: That was-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, there you go.
NATALIE MENTEN: The section that talks about competitive services, and I believe it's 58%,
and the statement was they're adding in nonprofits and governments. I'm wondering, would that
limit of the 58%, even without the government or the non-profit section, how that will tie our
hands-- since we're going to go into this, we're going to open up the store-- how that would tie
our hands as we look at potential transit vouchers, which we have advertised with Uber, Lyft,
taxi service in some of the outer reaches of the district as a result of the service reductions. So I
would hope that the legislature would untie our hands, and allow us to better serve the customers
who are paying in, with those alternatives.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that that's a very good question. And I think that the
Accountability Committee is open to that, removing the 58% limitation. It just is sort of like,
what Bill Sirois was mentioning before, is would that create a lot of opposition? And it's hard to
know. But that's the kind of feedback we're looking for and sort of generally from the Board and
staff, the thoughts.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Especially with our financial sustainability, if we're able to reduce a trip
that's, oh, I don't know, let's say, $27 subsidy down to, let's say, $6 or $7, then we're going to get
multiple trips out of that same original dollar amount. And for history, in the old days, the
competitive services used to be the opposite, that there was a minimum. And that was because of
ensuring that we didn't end up in a bind if we ever had a strike, or something like that. Then
hands changed down at the capital, and it reversed. So I would be very happy if that would be
brought to the Accountabilities Committee's attention, that we need that flexibility to be able to
serve the customers who continue to pay in, but may not have that route. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, thanks, Lynn, for this presentation. I'm looking
forward to going over this in a little more detail. Yeah, I think this is not only our chance to
comment on what the Accountability is suggesting, but to add in anything else we think gives us
more control and helps us better perform. I've got to presume that the Accountability Committee
wants us to improve as an agency, and so, therefore, if we don't limit ourselves to what they're
recommending, but also say, and by the way, [AUDIO OUT] guys think about 25 things we
think could also do. So I think that's an opportunity for us to at least find some of that stuff off of
them. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [AUDIO OUT] to hear that, thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I did just want to address the one
comment that Bill Sirois raised regarding local governments. That is a significant concern, and
one that needs to be addressed. And the legislature often forgets that. On the other hand, bear in
mind that school districts do not have to comply at all with any zoning regulations or restrictions
or building-code limitations that are imposed in municipalities where they're placing a school.
They're exempt from that. So the legislature might, in its wisdom, determine that it chooses to
exempt-- excuse me-- the RTD from at least a portion of that. It doesn't purport to exclude us
from zoning and other restrictions, it just addresses the parking restrictions.
Now of course, municipalities are very concerned about that because if you have a lot of
business being built, and you don't provide adequate parking, then you're burdening the
neighboring streets. And those voters and those municipalities would protest. But I point out
school districts are exempt. This is an exemption of a very limited nature. And it may actually
serve a valid purpose. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten, I see that your virtual hand is still
up. I just wanted to make sure you were done, or if you had any additional comments.
NATALIE MENTEN: I do actually have one additional comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.

NATALIE MENTEN: It just came to my attention recently, and this was starting early Tuesday,
unbelievably, to my surprise, RTD is paying sales tax to local jurisdictions, home rule
jurisdictions. And I'll give an example that it came to my attention that with the Eagle Project,
City and County of Denver, we pay sales and use tax. And it was to the tune of $12 million for
just Eagle Project. And this is also present in-- The reason it came to my attention is because of
trying to figure out where we are with the local match on the FasTracks project. And there are
other municipalities, and specifically in this case, where it started was the North Metro, we have
Commerce City, we have Northglenn. And then there's unknown amount of other jurisdictions
where we were supposed to pay sales and use tax on the construction materials and other items.
And I don't even know how we resolve this problem. I was shocked by this. And it turns out that
RTD, when it came time to go and make purchases, it was a shock to RTD that we were liable
for sales and use tax. I don't know how we solve this problem, whether it's at a legislative state
level, or if it requires going to each one of those home rule municipalities. But the common
person thinks of a government as tax exempt. And so I just bring this up because we ended up
paying millions of dollars. And we were pretty shocked when we got the bill. So good as time as
any to bring it up. I'll leave it at that. If anybody has any questions. Meanwhile, I'm still in the
digging stage on this. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Far be it for me to opine on something
where I haven't read all the underlying facts. But there may be some arguable distinction that the
municipalities assessing taxes against us made, which is that the Eagle P3 was a public-private
partnership. And that by joining the private entity with us, we may have lost our tax-exempt
status relative to that. I would be interested in seeing on other projects, where we acted solely as
a public entity, if we were also assessed those sales and use taxes on construction materials. But I
assume that Council can take some time to investigate that and report back to us as appropriate.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, and I'm wondering, Mr. Van Meter, if you could shed any
light on that.
BILL VAN METER: My understanding is that Director Tisdale's supposition is correct. But I'm
not an expert on that. So don't take my word for it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, so if we could, respectfully, ask our General Counsel to
look into that and then bring it back to us, that would be greatly appreciated.
NATALIE MENTEN: And, this is Menten, if I could just hold one statement, please. And that
was, I did bring this just to Melanie's attention this morning because Marla Lien tried to fight
against the sales tax and use tax collection. And she, Melanie, may be able to find something
from Marla Lien's era, perhaps, but it might be a challenge. But I've also talked at length with
Doug Macleod, and gave the example, even if RTD goes and directly buys a case of Brakleen
lane from Grainge, we end up paying tax on it.

So I did inquire about these things. And as I say, I'm just in the digging state. And Doug
Macleod will be reporting back on it. Melanie's aware of it. And again, was just it was a surprise
to the agency, and it was definitely a shock to me. Because now we're talking about millions of
dollars.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: You're welcome, bye. OK, thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I'm not seeing anyone else in the chat. So Director
Guissinger, the only thing that I'd like to say is I'd like to piggy back on what Secretary Buzek
said. And that is the fact that, I've been saying all along, we are at a place where we almost have
a clean slate, where we can bring forward the initiatives in the issues that we think are very
important. And I'm really very grateful to the Accountability Committee to be looking at these
issues because this was their charge. But we are a major player in this. And I think they're asking
for our comments.
This is our time to also do our job to make sure that we're looking at everything that we think we
need to do and add to it. So this is our time as well, so thank you. I'm looking forward to reading
this document more in-depth. And I may have more questions. And I would ask all the Board
members on this call, if you do as well, to send them-- do you want us to send our comments to
you, Treasurer Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure, send them to me or Troy and call either of us. We're happy to talk it
through and move it forward. And I really do think that the Committee wants to hear whatever
else we suggest. If we think something's not worth the fight, if we have different language,
anything like that, that would be helpful. But sending them over-- I've taken notes, but if you
have specific comments to send over, that would be perfect.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: When do you need them by?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I think we're still, since it's brand new, we're still figuring it out in
terms of word comments. So Barbara, I guess we want to get this to the Board, so we can get
some comments Tuesday night, potentially, in other matters. So I don't know if that goes on the
agenda packet or separately, or how you want to deal with that. But I guess we'll be taking Board
comments next week to Tuesday night and others. So I don't need them really before that unless
you can get them to me, thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The only other one that I would respectfully ask is what our staff
thinks, what they think is good, or if they have concerns, or if they have suggestions, as well,
because this is our team effort. And if we could get those, I would be so appreciative of that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, and just to make clear, and Troy and I have met twice with Bill
and Bill, and Melanie and Pauletta, and maybe some others in there. So we have been getting
feedback. And that's why we wanted all of that team to be in this meeting today was to start to
hear it. But we definitely want staff feedback, yes, thanks.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And the other thing I would just suggest is as we send this out to
the Board that they receive the comments from this group as well as our staff, so they have a
complete picture of where people are coming from when they're looking at it and wanting to
make suggestions.
MELANIE SNYDER: So, Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder if, I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: So to that point, can I suggest that we have the directors, once this is all
circulated, and people have had a chance to review it, if we can have folks get their feedback and
suggestions to Board staff to compile? And obviously, that would be shared with Directors
Guissinger and Troy and Whitmore as, obviously, the non-voting members of the Accountability
Committee. We could have that compiled in advance of next Tuesday's meeting for discussion in
other matters.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That makes sense, OK. Ms. McManus, can you do that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Absolutely.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [LAUGHS] Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: And Madam Chair, again, one at one other point, I think it's really
excellent that we're thinking that this could be an opportunity to not just reflect on the proposals
from the committee, but also for RTD to put forward potential other items of their own. I would
just suggest that anytime we're opening up our statute, that opens the door to others wanting to
add and make additional amendments. So I think that it's going to be helpful to start the
conversation next week. But I do want to make sure that we are going to be vetting anything that
RTD formally supports as far as additional amendments to the statute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Agreed. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHONTEL LEWIS: She took her hand down.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. All right. Let me see-SHELLEY COOK: Oh, no I did. I'm sorry, I did. I was just talking to the mute.
[LAUGHTER]
So Lynn, is it your sense that we would be operating from sort of a safe harbor in suggesting
things. I mean, is a hazard of opening up the statute generally, is that somewhat lessened? Or I'm
thinking about whether we should be careful or cautious about making changes, or if we can, in
fact, be a little bit more progressive than we've been on some of that stuff because I agree with
that idea.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I think let's-- I guess this is just me, but my thought is and others, Bill or
Bill, or whoever, Jeff and Melanie. But my thought is, let's get suggestions and see. I think we
want to pull a pretty narrow bill title. I think we need to get Brandeberry McKenna into this
conversation. They have [AUDIO OUT] in somewhat, but as I said, this document has just come
in. So they haven't seen this yet. Hopefully, the Accountability Committer-- I've raised this issue.
We have raised this issue with the Accountability Committee and just made the point that if we
bring these, we hope that the Accountability Committee will then help us to keep the suggestions
from straying too much in the process.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I have two hands up. And Director Tisdale, if I
might call on Director Whitmore first, since he's the co-chair. OK, go ahead, Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, just to echo a little bit of Lynn's points. We were largely ignored in
the beginning stages of many of these Committee meetings. Now we are not. I think a lot of this
is credit to Lynn with the relationship with police. Now we are being asked for input. So to
Shelley and Vince's point, I think now is the time. We need to be cautious, just like the Dueling
Bills have warned us. But I think now's the time. But then as we get closer to the legislature
convening, that's when the caution really needs to be considered.
And I guess I would ask the Bills if they're OK with that because I think we have a limited
window here, and we're in pretty good stead with one of the co-chairs of the Accountability
Committee. So Van Meter or Sirois, if you have opinions on that, I'd like to hear it briefly.
BILL VAN METER: So, Chair, if I may, it's Bill Van Meter. Yeah, my opinion is that it's similar
to what Melanie Snyder articulated. And that is, before we go too far down the path of RTD
suggesting changes, I think we would want to have our lobbyists' advice on the feel of the
legislature. And I think that would be a very prudent step to take. It always scares me to enter
into that arena of changing our legislative mandates and legislative requirements because that
could open up some unintended consequences. That statement has already been made, and that's
kind of where I stand. But exploring it with the Accountability Committee does seem like a
reasonable step.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Briefly, just a question to Directors
Guissinger and Whitmore. We have this first set of puzzles from Elise and Rutt, and I know we'll
be getting a copy of that this afternoon some time from Ms McManus. The question is, do you
know what their timing is on other groups' coming forward. I mean, are we going to have a serial
set of these different proposals concerning different sections of the statute coming at us, or are
going to try to group them all together in one point and give us everything they're considering?
What's the timing on that, please?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't anticipate anything other than-- Rutt and Elise are taking the lead
for the Committee on putting together this document and the statutes. And they're inviting our
comment, our additions, our questions, all of those things. But I don't think there'll be anything
additional. In terms of their December report, I think that this is likely to be the main focus. I

don't think they're far enough along with any of the other things they're looking at. They may talk
about what they're looking at. But I don't know that they're far enough along to have any real
conclusions by the end of December.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, 0 I just have it sense that they are going to invite input from other
groups. That has not been mentioned, Lynn, that I can recall. Now, it's very public, so it could
happen, but that has not been their MO on this. They have been very forthright in saying, hey, we
need to hear back from RTD. So, you know.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, all right, that does answer your question. Any other
questions on the Accountability proposals? OK, seeing. None Thank you so much for that report.
I'm really looking forward to reading this. I think it's going to be really pretty extraordinary for
us to be able to really delve into this, so thank you. Thank you, both, for being here and talking
about it. Our next agenda item under other matters is the possibility of an Executive session at
the November Board meeting. Ms. McManus, I'm going to turn this over to you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So that was in reference to having an Executive session if we needed
it, with regard to the state audit. I don't believe that the second round of questions or responses
from the state will happen prior to that. So I don't think that we will be having an session session,
unless Melanie, you've heard something ahead of time that I have not heard yet.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder. No, I haven't heard anything
different about the timing of those responses.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, and then there should have been another bullet point, I apologize,
underneath that item regarding a discussion of the audit report for 2020, and the 2021 audit
report that's being brought forward in December. And I think Director Cook will be speaking to
that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Cook. Director Cook, you're still muted.
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry. I'm sorry, everybody. Yes, and I recognize that we may be going into
an Executive session whose topics include this matter, too. But I wanted to bring to the
Executive Committee some decisions that we may need to make here in the near-term and midterm, depending upon the state audit, but also in terms of our current audit plan and the potential
for a new audit plan in 2021. And I'm speaking specifically of the internal audit function as
opposed to the external audit function. And so with that, I would wait to elaborate until we got
into that Executive session because we'll need to refer to the pieces of the state audit that we've
talked about in Executive session previously.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. The only other thing I would like to add to that is
I'm going to ask a Second Vice Chair Cook and first Vice Chair Catlin to pull this together to
bring under the Executive session on behalf of the Board. So thank you for offering to do that.
You guys have been working on this. But I think that will be very helpful for us. Is there any
other matters to come before this Executive Committee?

All right, seeing none. I'd like to now call the Executive session pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(C) CRS
for matters required to be kept confidential by federal or state law, or rules and regulations, and
2-3-103(2), and 2-3-103.7(1) CRS regarding confidentiality of audit reports and
recommendations for a discussion rough draft audit findings by the Office of the State Auditor,
related to the 2021 performance audit, pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(F)(I) CRS for the consideration
of related personnel matters, and pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(B) CRS for the conferences with an
attorney, for the purpose of receiving legal advice regarding the same.
There, I said it only once. Do I have a motion to move into Executive session?
PEGGY CATILIN: So moved, Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Second, Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Cook. Are there any in
opposition to it? Hearing none, We are going to call the Executive session. I would ask anyone
on this call who is not to be in this meeting to please disconnect at this point. And then we will
call us back after the Executive session.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, I think there's a separate link for them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. Then I'll see you guys on the next link.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder. I'm just going to note for the record
that it's 12:17 when we're adjourning from open session.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Councilor.
--2020. It is now 1:04 PM. Do we have any other business to come before the Executive
Committee? Hearing none, I'd to call for an adjournment. Do I have a first?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved, or second, whatever you are looking for.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have a movement of Director Guissinger.
PEGGY CATLIN: I believe Director of Buzek seconded.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any opposition to adjourning? Hearing none, we are
adjourned, ladies and gentlemen, at 1:05. Thank you so much. Have a great day.

