2021-10-19
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Part 1
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. The Operations and Customer Service Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Directors and members of staff, please
mute yourself until you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the
RTD Board of Directors continue to be held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom, as now,
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as possible on the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com and
scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and staff, as always, if you would like to be acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, please
raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you-- hopefully with the help of some of the staff-- before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9.
To toggle your mute setting if you are on the phone, press star 6. I would ask that the Board staff assist
me in recognizing potential speakers.
We're not taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public who are interested in
communicating to the Board members are encouraged to do so prior to the committee meeting and/or
during the monthly Board meeting. For those dates, you can refer to the Board's meeting portal, which is
located at rtd.iqm2.com.
At RTD, safety is one of our core values. I will begin this meeting with a short safety briefing.
While recent public health orders have relaxed to some requirements for the use of face coverings in
certain settings, the Transit Security Administration, known as the TSA, has extended the federal mask
requirement for public transportation until January of 2022. The federal mask requirement states that
individuals must wear a face covering while waiting for and while riding public transportation, including
airports and aircrafts, train stations and trains, bus stops and buses. RTD requires that employees and
customers continue to wear face coverings, and RTD is taking a cautious approach to returning to prepandemic operating practices to ensure the safety of our employees and our customers.
Transit has proven to be an extremely safe way to travel. There have been no positive clusters of positive
cases linked to transit in the Denver Metro area.

Please consider getting vaccinated if you have not already done so, wear your face covering in public,
especially on transit, and practice physical distancing. We hope to end the pandemic sooner rather than
later. Thank you.
Ms. McManus, will you now call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUGLAS TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present and accounted for. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. McManus. First this evening we're going to have a discussion item and
an attendant presentation. Our discussion item is the Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee,
known as APAC, report. And our staff representative who is handling that is Mr. Michael Ford, our Chief
Operations Officer. Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to just give a little bit of brief information. APAC
members engage in dialogue with the RTD staff to ensure trends, issues, trends, needs, policies, and
resources pertaining to Access-a-Ride Paratransit services throughout the district and offer a unique
perspective with the goal of continuously improving those services. Tonight, we have Tex Elam from
APAC. He will provide a summary of the September 14 APAC meeting and will be able to answer
questions after his brief presentation. So with that, I'm going to introduce or turn it over to Tex Elam for a
presentation.
TEX ELAM: Thank you very much.
As indicated, I'm going to be talking about the September 14 meeting in which three new members joined
the organization. We have six issues which came up as updates. One of them you were discussing
before the meeting, which is the COVID situation, that was presented thoroughly and thoughtfully by
members of the staff. And so until I think it's January the 18th, there will be no changes and we will all be
wearing, continue to be wearing masks.
The second issue that came up was that because of the drivers situation, Access-a-Ride has extended
the time for people to schedule meet, schedule appointments up to seven days. Difficult situation, as you
all know, and this is one attempt to modify the problem.

Then Access-a-Cab has a new project going. Because these Access-a-Cab is operated by drivers who
are not employees of RTD, it's difficult to say that they will be able to meet their responsibilities. And so
what happens is that we go on a leave. If a cab has not arrived in the seven day, or in the half hour that
they're supposed to arrive, then, in fact, Access-a-Ride will provide a dri-- a present-- a cab or a vehicle to
handle that assignment. And the same thing is true coming back. That is that if a cab does not arrive as is
expected at the time, then Access-a-Ride will provide a return trip opportunity.
By the way, that's called RTD Assist.
Thirdly, new vehicle specifications situation. In June, there was a study, task force situation in which it
was an open house at the maintenance garage, and members of this committee joined with maintenance
people to study the kinds of things that would be expected and hoped for in the new equipment if it comes
and when it comes. The feedback from it was positive from both groups, our members as well as other
people from the staff who were at the meeting.
Next, the Uber project task status report. It's a small group right now. It's in a very small area of the city.
But there are 200 people who have signed up for the Uber first experiment, 25 of which are regular
participants of the experiment. That has gained enough information that it has been decided to move to
the next stage of broadening it, and in that context, be able to provide more service we expect that, we
were told that decision will be forthcoming. And you will be hearing more as we hear more.
We got a new eligibility company, a contractor, MTM. And so in August, members of this committee went
and assisted them be trained to be interviewers for potential Access-a-Ride membership. Feedback from
it was positive from both groups, from the MTM people as well as from those of us who participated, and
found the people who have come in to do the job to be very professional.
Then discussion points. There is a new customer guide being developed and it's now in its second draft
form. It's being reviewed, being discussed. It's anticipated that before the end of the year that new guide
will become official.
Then the Reimagine Task Force came and visited us. They made a substantial presentation on both their
short-term and long-term objectives. There was some discussion. We anticipate there will be more
discussion the next time they come and make a participating with us.
And lastly, as was mentioned, there is the APAC committee, then there is another committee which deals
with ADA issues. It was thought that these committees have met separately. It was thought, let's see if we
can't merge them together for joint meetings periodically. We've had two such meetings. The third one is
coming up on the tenth of November. We have been asked in both committees to review the idea of
meeting jointly periodically, meeting jointly entirely, or not meeting jointly at all. The report will come in
hopefully on the tenth of November. Thank you. Any questions?
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Ford, you want to run this part or you want me to do it?
MICHAEL FORD: I will yield to you, Madam Chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: Oh gee, my friend. If anybody has any questions for Tex, please raise your hand. And
if everybody is happy with that very well done report, thank you, Tex, then we will move on. OK. Seeing
no hands at the moment. We're going to thank Mr. Elam for his report and move on to our recommended
actions tonight.
We have two recommended actions on the agenda this evening. The first recommended action is for the
Board of Directors to approve the January 2022 Service Change Package, as revised and summarized in
attachment A, and to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved. Oh, sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's good. You're good. That'd be Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Do I have a second?
ROSENTHAL: Second Rosenthal.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. We'll now move to a staff information report. And I
believe that's Mr. Ford again.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm just going to kind of summarize what's already in your
pack, but I thought it would be worth repeating again. Just by way of background, commensurate with the
service change and voting process detailed in the collective bargaining agreement shared between RTD
and the Amalgamated Transit Union 1001, the January 20, 2022 service change proposal facilitates both
an opportunity for bus and rail operators to vote new work assignments and the opportunity for service
development division staff to adjust the operations plan for RTD's transit network.
A vital part of the development of the service plan involves stakeholder and customer input processes.
The stakeholder listening phase is an addition to the public listening phase, which concluded August 30,
2021 and is part of the January 20, 2022 service change process. Both stakeholder feedback and
customer input will help inform RTD's future service plans. By way of discussion, service changes
implemented during 2021 where in part directed towards recovery from impacts experienced due to the
COVID-19 pandemic.
Current ridership levels have increased modestly with ridership cresting at 50% of pre-pandemic levels.
Bus increases in service levels have been implemented with each service change. And the system
capacity has been increased with the lifting of restrictions. It should be noted that current levels of service
offered largely exceed current ridership demand. Additionally, the agency is challenged with attracting
and retaining operators like many public and private service industries throughout the country.
RTD has implemented incentives to aid in recruitment and retention of frontline employees with the goal
of expanding the agency's human resources to allow for an increase in service delivery. At this time,
operator availability will not support a substantial return of service. The proposal herein contains a mix of
modest service improvements and adjustments aimed at maintaining on-time performance and contract
compliance. It is intended that the proposed service changes in the current COVID-19 service plan be

adopted as further modification to the initial plan implemented April 19, 2020 and modified in subsequent
service changes in 2021.
The Board adopted guidance and proposed service change continues to encompass service performance
evaluations based on service standards, the effects on overall integrity of the transit network, and on
transit dependent markets, the availability of alternative service to affected customers, cost effective
distribution throughout the district and family of services, and the ability to enhance service when
possible.
Title VI and Civil Rights Act in that benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color,
national origin, and without disparate effects on low income and minority populations and responses to
changes in the communities where services are provided. Given the current economic conditions due to
COVID-19 induced economic slowdown, the overarching guidance for the proposed January 2022 service
change comes from the Board adopted guidance for COVID-19 budget reductions, particularly the
Board's stated desire to maximize mobility during the pandemic for those customers who most depend
upon RTD services to access essential jobs and their necessities while also keeping community activity
centers appropriately connected.
Summary of public meetings, there were three meetings conducted virtual via Microsoft Teams on
Monday, October 4, 2021 at noon at 5:00 PM, Tuesday, October 5, at 5:00 PM. These meetings have
been recorded and are available for review. Comments from the public comment period have been
summarized and listed in Attachment E and F in your report.
And finally, changes to the initial recommendation, staff receives input during the public comment process
and continues to conduct additional analysis after the initial service recommendations are communicated
to the Board of Directors. Depending on the outcome of the public comment process and continued
analysis, staff may or may not propose modifications to the initial recommendations. The following
proposals have been added or significantly modified.
So I'm going to stop here. And we're happy to go into more questions or details. I also have Senior
Manager, Acting Senior Manager of Service Development, Jessie Carter, available to go over any of the
details that he feels would be helpful for this discussion.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, sir and Madam Chair. If I may, I just want to mention a couple of things that
have changed since the initial proposals were sent out. And those include additional scheduled
adjustments to address on-time performance throughout the district, additional schedule adjustments for
bell times, most notably for the DPS system, the inclusion of the 104L and 520 routes for adjustments to
better connect those two routes in the Brighton area, and also we added the 16th Street mall, anticipating
that we will be going through quite a bit of change with a pending construction on the mall that is slated
for January, or sorry, early or first quarter 2022.
So I think that summarizes the changes that were added since the initial proposal. With that, I turn it back
to Michael.

MICHAEL FORD: At this time, we're happy to take any questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Directors, if anybody has questions or comments, raise your hand. I'm happy to call on
you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I received a phone call this morning from a constituent who
was quite upset with RTD. He had wanted to take a bus from roughly Broadway and I think Littleton
Boulevard over to Bulls and Sims, I believe is what he said. He ended up walking the whole way and
never saw a single bus by his observation. Now, I'm not sure that he looked up the scheduling or not.
But he was frustrated for the lack of east-west service in the south Jeffco area. And so I mentioned to him
that he needed to make his concerns known with a written comment. I encouraged him to contact the
County Commissioners because I think we need some more partnerships with some of our local elected
officials. And I reassured him that I would parlay his message to you all tonight.
And when I explained to him that it was due to operator shortage, he was not buying that. Because the
perception is that we received a lot of COVID relief funding, which we did, but the fact that it's very difficult
for us to recruit and retain operators is a source of frustration for all of us. But he didn't seem to think that
was a very good excuse. So just wanted to put it out there that he was quite concerned.
The other comment I had was more about how you determine which routes are dropped. I get alerts
frequently when the D line drops trips. And I'm wondering how those impacted or how the trips are
determined, by what criteria, and are they similar on our other light rail routes, such as the W line and the
line in Aurora in the southeast. I was just curious. And you don't have to answer tonight because I don't
want this meeting to go on, but I would really be curious to know how in reverse priority order those
routes are cut because of the lack of operators. That's all. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. I'm going to accept the fact that you said you don't need an
answer right now and move on to Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so in regards to the 65 on Monaco Parkway, and I
received some community feedback on that about doing some schedule adjustments, so I really have to
commend and thank both Mr. Carter and Mr. Ford and the entire team for working with the high schools in
that area to really make sure that we're providing the best possible service to the students and teachers
and staff and people who live in that area. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Guissinger, I see your hand.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. I have a few questions and some comments. Jessie, thanks for
the information. I noticed in the packet that it says that the 16th Street mall construction will result in
reduction of service frequency that's not readily predictable at this time. As you know, I've been
concerned about the FF4 where people are taking the FF1 that stops everywhere and then have to take
the mall shuttle down to Civic Center.

So I'm wondering, you mentioned that there were some changes with 16th Street. What are we doing to
address those delays and increasing the time of the commute?
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Director Guissinger. And looking at the mall shuttle, knowing that the
construction will cause some sizable detours off of the mall, and the mall shuttle will have to actually run
on adjacent streets, that actually adds to the cycle time. So it diminishes our ability to provide the same
level of frequency. And as you may know, we basically run with the cycle time provided by the signal
system on the 16th Street mall with large swaths, and we're not sure exactly how many blocks will be
closed at a time, and that may change and vary.
So what we've done so far is to kind of turn down the headway frequency. Instead of it being a three
minute frequency, we're turning it down to a four and a half and assuming that it's still going to require the
same number of vehicles and operators to actually provide the service. So we're trying to provide a still
somewhat reliable service using the equipment and operators that we currently have. And I do
understand that may add pressure from other areas wanting connections to the Civic Center area from
the DUS area.
But at this point in time, it's really difficult to gauge exactly how long the detours will have the negative
effect, and at the same time, where we will be in terms of the number of operators that we have for the
next service change which would be in the May time frame. So it may be something that we have to
adjust really for in the May service change. I hope that answers your question. If not, please-LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, that answered my question. I guess it doesn't alleviate my concern, and I
appreciated you answering some questions for me last week about the workforce shortage and all of
those things. I guess, looking at the comments from page, I think, 31 to 109 in the packet, we're almost
exclusively FF4, FF2, FF7 comments. And the FF7 started at Sheridan, and for those who don't know, I
didn't know exactly either, started at Sheridan and went into Civic Center.
The FF4 started in Boulder and stopped all the way except in Sheridan, I believe, and then went into Civic
Center. Is that right?
JESSIE CARTER: That's correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I'm wondering, what would it take in terms of workforce, how many people
would it take if we combine those if the FF4 stopped at Sheridan? And so we're really serving all the way
up and down that line both directions. If you could add 3:00 in the morning going both ways and 3:00 in
the late afternoon going both ways, what's the magnitude of the missing workforce there?
JESSIE CARTER: Wow. Thanks for that question. And the missing workforce has to be looked at. And
again, when we look at our service changes, consideration has to be given not only to those singular
changes but to how we then balance that with changes elsewhere. So if I bring back, let's say, a branch
that did not exist before or has not existed since the COVID was put into place, that is 100% change and,
therefore, pushes us into doing an analysis as required under FTA guidelines.

And so I would want to balance that with a change in the equity population or routes serving the equity
population. So in doing that, whatever, let's say we had to add an additional eight operators for what
you're asking for, I would also need to look at a similar type of change elsewhere, so a total of 16
operators on a weekday. That's just an example. We don't have that at this time to-- we don't have the
wherewithal in terms of the number of people or operators to actually put out that large of a service
change.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. I guess that raises a couple of questions for me. Do we assume that this
doesn't serve equity populations along the way? And second one is, eight the number that it would take to
bring back two or three routes of the FF4 both ways in the morning and afternoon?
JESSIE CARTER: Yeah. And I may be grasping at straws, but if I remember correctly, it's more than 45
minutes one way. So two ways, it looks like a two hour cycle to me. And in order to provide a trip every
half hour, that's going to cost at least four each one of those branches. So that's my assumption going in.
Now in terms of whether or not the US 36 corridor is considered a Title VI equity route, and this is again
just my recollection, I will go back and take a look at it, but it's my memory that states that the US 36
corridor did not necessarily serve a large equity population.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I guess it's a question maybe for Mrs. Johnson as well. But I guess I'm
wondering, does that keep us then from serving commuters in the long term here?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. It's an amalgamation of different things. As Mr. Carter pointed
out, we're looking at equity of populations across our entire swath of our service area with these 2,342
square miles. When we look at the balancing of the service delivery models, we have to look at census
data. We use the American Community Survey or we'll use the latest information from the census
holistically.
So when you talk about serving commuters, there's a myriad of different people that are utilizing our
family of services and such. So to state that we're not serving commuters, I can't give you a blatant
answer in reference to your inquiry because, as we clearly have seen with the shift of the COVID-19
pandemic residual impacts, travel patterns have shifted somewhat, and people are utilizing the services
at different times of day.
So while we do have the FF1 providing services from the areas in which you stated earlier, they're not
across the board as we don't have that same level of ridership previously to basically offset that revenue
cost per hour and then ensure that communities of color are basically not being disproportionately
impacted. And so we have to look at it from a holistic point of view. So as we go forward and things shift,
and as you may be aware that we are looking at a myriad of different efforts as relates to recruitment, but
as you all have heard we say ad nauseam, the whole world is short-staffed.

So we're being judicious in reference to what we're doing, looking at our branches, looking at our core
routes as I would establish them as such, to move people to and fro within the entire service area. Does
that make sense?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Thanks. And I apologize, because I'm sure we learned this when we got the
equity analysis. But it is it then based on defined equity corridors for lack of a better term or diversity
corridors? And 36 doesn't qualify?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So we have to look at the service we're bringing back to make that determination
holistically, so I can't answer that question just in absentia in the sense that we're not comparing it with
other routes in other corridors to look at it holistically to determine if there is not a 10% greater impact on
an equity population than a non-equity population.
So potentially, if you are looking at a different corridor within the more densely populated urbanized area
within the service area itself, perhaps, that would be a balance, and then this conversation would not
ensue from the relationship of the US 36 corridor perhaps not being as diverse. But you have to look at it
in pairs and that relationship, as Mr. Carter specified, as we look to see what the impacts are.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yea. This is a tough one. I think it's easy to sort of say Boulder is Boulder. But the
buses we're talking about, the FF4 and the FF2, certainly serve both directions. They serve Denver City
and County, they serve Jefferson County, they serve Broomfield County, Boulder County, probably
Adams County as well. And it takes a lot of cars off the road. And being schoolteachers and health
workers and others from a lot of places into Boulder and Broomfield and Westminster.
And so to see the FF4 becoming even a longer commute, you saw, like I say, from page 31 to 109,
people commenting. I'm hearing steadily from others. Someone today who rode the FF2 for 12 years and
only drove once. And in the last few weeks when he's been going back part time has driven 12 or 13
times. I have another couple of comments, but I'm going to stop because Jessie's got his hand raised. I'd
love to hear what you have to say, too, Jessie.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Mr. Carter.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Muted.
KATE WILLIAMS: Your mouth is moving, but we do not hear your voice.
JESSIE CARTER: And no words are coming out. I am so sorry. I apologize for that. But I just wanted to
make sure Director Guissinger understood that even if there was no balance given for equity populations,
the size of the type of change to bring back the FF4, and I've heard from requests from FF2 as well and
FF7, are moves that we can't make right now. Even if there wasn't the need for it, those are increases in
service that we can afford.
And it's frustrating to staff as well because if I were to look back at, again, the ridership on the US 36
corridor, we were very proud to have 13,000 boardings a day on that corridor. Now, if you remember, it

went down quite a bit, and we were sitting at about 20% of pre-COVID ridership. The FF1 alone carried
5,000 a day prior to COVID. Now, we're looking at numbers that are below 2,000.
So when I look at all the requests that come in via other areas as well, and we take into consideration
some of the changes in areas that don't have any return to service at this point in time, it's really hard for
us to say this area, while it has one line, needs an additional branches added back while we still don't
have service in other areas. Or in looking at performance on routes that retain upwards of 60% and 70%
of pre-COVID ridership, to say that we should not be exploring and increasing those services as well, as
well as trying to bring back the FF4.
So I say all that to say that my team is anxious to get back to providing a higher level of service and
bringing back the routes that we were accustomed to seeing high ridership on. That includes US 36
corridor, but it also includes other parts of the district.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I appreciate that. And I guess it makes me wonder, because I'm hearing from
people steadily that are saying that the buses are full, it's not certainly nearly all the time that it's standing
room only, but it does happen. So I'm trying to think-- that's why I was asking about a couple in the
morning or 3:00 in the morning and in the afternoon, trying to figure out how we could make something
work because it's clearly we're losing riders on this. But I will quit taking up so much time and let someone
else talk. Thanks very much for all the answers.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. So kind of along those same lines. At a prior meeting, Dan
Merritt had suggested that you all were trying to get the MetroRide up and running in time for the January
'22 service changes. But that's not in the plan, Jessie. And it addresses to a certain extent that same
concern about getting from one end of downtown to another for people who are returning to work.
But it also, to the extent that if the FF4 or the FF7 or a hybrid of the two that serves you US 36 and
Sheridan, was back in service, it would help with the dearth of service in North Jeffco because to the
extent you don't have service there, those trunk lines, those places where people can go to and then ride
become more important, it seems to me. So I just wanted to say, if you can get the FF4 back in service or
the MetroRide and the FF4 serves US 36 and Sheridan, that's a different service sector I would suggest.
It pulls in lots of Arvada and Westminster and is kind of a key location for getting into all parts of
downtown. So just thought that might be an added advantage of looking at that restoration. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I first want to start off by echoing some of the comments Director
Guissinger made about the mall shuttle and the impact on getting from DUS to Civic Center. So just as
she had some of her flat iron fliers that took her there, I had the 122X used to take my constituents from
Wagon Road to Civic Center. And that's been eliminated. Now, they've sort of taken the 120X to DUS and

then the 16th Street mall over to Civic Center. I guess I've got the same concern about the construction
and the impact. How we get people from DUS to Civic Center.
I was hoping also to see that MetroRide come back. That would have been a great alternative, but not to
be so hopeful, we're watching the 16th Street mall operations. And we keep an eye on that. I have a
question about the US 36 managed lane project, and I'd like to know if anyone could tell me, how much
money RTD contributed to that project?
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't know, who wants to answer that? General Manager Johnson, do we have any
idea?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, I don't have that off the top of my head recognizing the question at hand, but
I'd make a commitment of getting back to you as expeditiously as possible with that information.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
VINCE BUZEK: What I recall is a big number. I mean, millions of dollars. How many buses do we have
using the managed lanes out of Boulder into Denver and out of Denver into Boulder today? Do we know?
I don't mean number of buses, but what routes currently use the managed lanes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Carter?
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Buzek, I would say it's pretty much the Flatiron
Flyer, the FF1 and FF5 which are currently in service.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So they're still using the managed lanes?
JESSIE CARTER: Yes, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, good. Well, that's good to know that we're still getting some of our money back out of
that. So yeah, I've had some people talk to me about the FF2 because that stops in Westminster and
Sheridan and a number of my constituents there use it. And I understand all the issue. It's not just a
Boulder issue either, it's my people in Adams and Jeffco side of Westminster that use the Flatiron Flyer
service as well. So hopefully, we'll keep our eyes on that and make some progress. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Davidson, I believe you're next.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Madam Chair. Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter, thank you for the presentation
and discussion. I know we're all, I'm sure, hearing about various routes right now given the situation that
we're in. It's probably no surprise given the area that I'm in. We hear about the 122X, the 128, FF2, FF4
just to name some of the ones that are eliminated in the area. I think the 128 is starting to pop up a little
bit more just given that especially with the N-line being open during the pandemic.

But rather than commenting on any of those individual ones, I'm sure that there's a lot of these right now.
I'm wondering, do we have a list, how are we-- it'd be helpful, I guess, just for my edification to understand
how we're receiving these requests, measuring this, and balancing it against our ridership challenges and
our labor challenges. Is there a list somewhere? Is there some way that this is being tracked that as we're
being asked about this, we may be able to reference or direct people to?
I guess I'm not saying it very well. I'm curious about the requests in other districts right now because I get
the requests that are very centric around 128, FF2, FF4, 122X, and then some other ones that trickle in.
But I'm sure a lot of us are hearing many of those, and I'm curious what those might be. And we don't
have to go into all the details now, but how that's being tracked and how we're juggling that with the labor
challenges right now.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's a pretty complex question. Does anybody want to step up to some piece of that?
JESSIE CARTER: I would like to start, Madam Chair, if I may.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Jessie.
JESSIE CARTER: It is my birthday, so I want to take-KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, happy birthday to you. Go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. So With that, I will say that, well, it's a very good question. For the service change
in particular, the January service change, we have service.change the email site, also calls coming in to
customer care and coming in directly to the Department are recorded, as well as for that specific change,
for the January service change. However, customers care still keeps a list of requests and comments that
have come in from customers on a regular basis. And they are referred to and answered by staff in
various parts of the RTD to include my group.
So we collect quite a bit of information. We get phone calls and participate in meetings with other groups
and municipalities where we are told what the need is at this point in time. And a lot of that is in reference
to services that have lesser headways and shorter spans of service, and that's kind of a big deal.
Because we have a large number of routes that operated basically starting at 5:00 AM in the morning and
running very late to 11 PM. And those serve a community that are frontline workers.
And I have to say if I had to do it all over again, I think that's where I would do some things differently in
providing wider spans over higher frequencies if we could turn back the hands of time and go back to
when COVID started. So there are requests for later service. There are requests for more frequent
service. There are requests for changes to the branches because not all of our service patterns are the
same as they were because we're basing it off the Saturday type service versus a weekday service.
So we get a lot of different requests. We do track them, and we do have a memory as to what the
ridership was on those routes. So as we compare the requests, we are relating it to the former ridership.
We are looking at what percentage of ridership was retained post-COVID. And we're keeping kind of a

running tab. But if there is a great interest and a compelling need, we make changes to the plan, and we
have in recent months.
Where we've hit a brick wall, and it is a very big brick wall, is the operator shortage. It is not an excuse. It
is a reality. And it's something that we can't actually go and say, well, let's just slip in a few here. Unless it
keeps us either in compliance with our collective bargaining agreement or it fixes a service that does not
work or that, in a sense, has already seen a service cut because we're not making the grade in terms of
on-time performance.
So that's one thing I'd want to stress is that our operator situation is very, very real. If we had a choice at
this point in time, we'd turn on a number of services, and then we would take a very hard look at what
we're going to do with your Reimagine project and then restructure our services accordingly. So at this
point in time, I would say we have an idea of what we need to do, and we have a path forward that's
being described through the Reimagine process, and those are the steps we will need to take.
However, we need people to do that. And we need operators more so than anything. Money-- not saying
money's not a problem, money is always a problem. But to say that we really do need operators at this
point in time, and I'm hoping that answers your question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: It really does. Yeah. Thank you. Madam Chair, if I may just follow up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. First of all, happy birthday, Mr. Carter. That's awesome. And I hope we don't
have to turn back the hands of time and go back to the beginning of the pandemic. I know there was no
playbook for this. So for what it's worth, I think we've all done the best we can here. And hopefully, we
don't have to do it again. So thank you for sharing all that. It was really helpful just to kind of hear through
some of that particularly the pre-pandemic ridership and so forth.
In terms of our return and our goals to return to 85% service over some time, I mean for a while, our
biggest limiter being in the pandemic was the ridership challenges. Is it fair to say is that a fair
assessment-- I'm not asking for an exact percentage of this, that, or the other-- but is it a fair assessment
that this now we've reached the point where getting to 85%, let's say, has more to do with the operator
shortage and labor than it does ridership numbers or what we would project to be ridership numbers on
eliminated routes? Have we crossed that point where it's more labor than it is ridership or are we still
somewhere in the middle there?
JESSIE CARTER: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, sir.
JESSIE CARTER: If I may. Actually, the situation is fluid as you described it. I do think ridership has
changed. We are at a happier place, a more balanced place in terms of ridership. There are some routes
that I have to applaud. They're in the upper 60% of ridership retention. With shorter spans of service, with

less frequency, they're still holding on to 60% of the ridership. That's really, really good and indicates an
area that we could take a look at in expanding the service and growing ridership if we had the operators
to do so.
So yes, I do think we're at a point where there are clearly corridors in our area that are underperforming
only due to our lack of resource.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Madam Chair, if I could just add on something to Mr. Carter's remarks, because I
know oftentimes we talk about operators and operators are very critical to our overarching transit service
delivery model. But we'd be remiss to state that we need mechanics because operators have no way of
transporting people if we don't have vehicles in a state of good repair. And more so, we need recruiters to
help recruit individuals to work.
So I just wanted to ensure that I shared that information as well because we're always laser focused on
operators, and they're critical, but there's other components as well as we look at overarching aspects in
reference to service delivery because we're in need of dispatchers. It's the whole gamut as we talk about
what we're in need of.
So I wanted to stress that as well on another point to Mr. Carter's comments as well recognizing that a
service equity analysis was done in relationship to the service modifications that were made in April. That,
too, was being used as a guidepost in reference to what you asked about, how we're bringing back
service, because we're looking at that holistically to discern what might be best as we bring back the
service. And so I just didn't want that to fall between the cracks as we have this very in-depth
conversation, which I think is warranted, as we recognize the whole world is short staffed.
And yes, there's amalgamation of things that we could do if, in fact, we were in a better place. But we're
also making up for lost time. And I did hear the term used by a Board member saying that a constituent
didn't like that excuse. It's really not an excuse for making up for lost time because there is a lot of things
that could have been done differently, as Mr. Carter stated, but there's no need in looking backwards.
What we're trying to do is look forward. And there's a lot of adjustments that need to be made and trust
and believe that the team and I are committed to doing what we can within the confines of what we have
established to ensure that we can bring those things to fruition. So thank you very much for the
opportunity to share those thoughts.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Mr Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Just one final follow up question, if I may. So thank you for commenting. It's helpful to
understand. It does make sense. It's fluid, and there's probably some routes that it's primarily ridership.
Maybe we wouldn't have it if we were to return it, and some certainly can understand it's labor. And
certainly, this is happening in numerous industries. I mean, everybody is dealing with this right now.
One question, something that's very exciting. I think this reinforces why we had a strategic plan
collectively that involves employee ownership. Are we at the point where we're able to project within a
reasonable margin of error just given current dynamics what our net operator and mechanic gain or loss

is? Say, looking at these service changes, are we able to project or is this just so fluid that we still can't
quite track the metrics of-- I know we would know what our gains are in arrears, but what our net gain is in
terms of staff on a look forward basis?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So that's a very good-ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson, that's maybe a question more for you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, sir, for asking the question. So it's purely conjecture and
speculation at this point. We have an opportunity to do a better job at workforce development when we
look at our attrition rates going forward. Because, basically, we weren't looking in that direction. I have
been working with the team, and that's our intent going forward. So using this as an example, recognizing
the retention has been a problem, there's a lot of things that we could step up to, perhaps, make this a
more enticing working environment.
And that's what I'm committed to doing. And that's why employee ownership is a very crucial priority for
us as an organization. So with that being said, as we go forward, what we're going to need to do is
basically look at what we're trending, and then double that and start recruiting for that as we go forward.
But there's a lot of different elements that are involved. Because since this has not been done in the
manner in which optimally one could say we should be doing recruitment, we're going to catch up.
It's no different than using the current supply chain analogy. We're looking at those cargo ships sitting in
the port of Long Beach, California or the Port of LA. As we heard clearly, it's going to take about a year
and a half to catch up. So I want to ensure that I'm being transparent and forthright with all of you.
Because when we were having, as an organization, these challenges before dating back to 2019 and
2018, there wasn't that workforce development being implemented where we had potentially qualified
candidate pool, where we were hiring continually so we have people in the hopper as we go forward.
And that's something that we need to work on collectively. And then, let's think about what might be best
as we want to attract individuals. Because right now, we can't compete. I can go work at a different
private sector entity or public sector entity, and keeping in mind that there was a lot of assistance being
provided, not saying it's good, bad, or indifferent, but in reference to what people were netting, why would
I engage and not be in the optimal working conditions as we go forward?
So working towards that, I can't give you those numbers right now, but we're at a place in which we have
an opportunity to move full steam ahead. And I know we have commitment and reference to the team that
we have here and working in partnership with our union as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. I really appreciate all the discussion on that. And yeah,
certainly, at a very important time for us to make this an appealing and a genuinely good job and attract
the talent we need. So thank you for that. Thank you for the efforts on that. Thank you for the opportunity
to have the questions and discussion. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Davidson. I believe Chair Rivera-Malpiede is next.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I really appreciate this conversation because I
think it's really pertinent to the work that we're doing as the entire district. As the district C Director, I want
to talk a little bit about the silent voices. We've received several letters from the Boulder community
talking about their needs. In my community, which is the transit dependent and the working poor, they
don't have a voice usually because they're too busy surviving, and so I want to speak on their behalf.
The thing about community members who are transit dependent and working poor are so busy surviving,
they don't have time to write letters. They don't have time to come to meetings. They don't have time to
call Board members and say here's what I think, this is what I need to do. They just know that they need
to get to work on time or get their children to daycare or need to go get groceries.
I think that these whole TDM programming where we really fight to provide services to our community
members are fabulous. Unfortunately, in my community, we've not been part of the TDM program that
provides incentives. We pay whatever you tell us to pay. We go wherever you tell us to go because we
have no other choices. And tonight, I want to say to all of you, we do have choices. We have them
through the Board that I'm looking at currently, the staff who are working diligently to make sure that this
is a fair and equitable process for all people, not just certain people in certain sections of the community.
And I think that it is something that we need to look at in the holistic if we're truly going to be a Board of
the region rather than the Board of specific communities. Because if we serve our most vulnerable
communities, then we will have served everybody. And I just think that that's really imperative to
remember as we're moving forward with these service changes is to look at the holistic part of it rather
than specific areas. Because we really have a lot of folks whose livelihoods depend on us getting them to
and from where they need to go regardless of where they live. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think Director Sloan is up next?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. And thank you, Chair. That was really a heartfelt comment on what we're all
working on. I would like to say I stand in awe of staff in terms of their putting together such a complex
program in a time when we don't really know what's happening next. So this is a great conversation to
hear more about that, but it's also a difficult time for the Board itself.
I believe this is part of our responsibility to look at these service changes. And I know staff feels the same
way. I've listened in on some of the service change meetings. And there there's a drumbeat of we really
need to hear from you. Please, share your experiences. And whenever anyone says something, there's
frequently a response, well, your comment will go to the Board for its consideration when there's a final
service change decision.
So we wouldn't be doing our job if we didn't raise these questions and dig a little bit deeper. So we
believe you do incredible work. And at the same time, because we tell people we really want to hear from
you, it wouldn't be meaningful if their comments were not discussed. And we had pages and pages and
pages and pages and pages of comments that were gleaned from the meetings and emails. And it's
important that these folks understand our RTD's position, its considerations, and that, perhaps, their
comment didn't make a difference this time, but it will be taken into consideration later.

And I would also express my appreciation, Mr. Carter. N rail was really pleased that you contacted them
and worked through, perhaps, some alternatives to re-establishment of the DS line. That meant so much
to just hear from RTD. So I would like to convey to the public in some way, if it's not a message to each
person who commented, that their participation did make a difference because they did give up some
time. And we encourage them to do so, and then we discourage them if we do not have a response for
them. So that is my comment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Sloan. We appreciate that. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I couldn't agree with
you more. And I want to start off by saying, this is really just my sharing best practices. And I have
learned, I know there was a lot of discussion. I work in off 6 and Market. Many of the people who I work
with live all over. And so this is not meant to say I'm doing x, you should do x, too. I know my words
sometimes get twisted.
It's truly just a best practice sharing on some of the points that have been raised in ways that I found to be
so successful in getting people comfortable with RTD and possibly using other services. So one is to work
collaboratively with folks when they talk about service and the lack of service. And to talk about land use
and land use planning and the importance of lobbying city council and working with city council, whether
it's about a bus stop and the lack of pavement or it's about service.
We know that we don't have great land use planning for transit here. We are working on it. Our TOD team
is doing a great job working on it, but it can be improved. Right? And even if we ran a ton of buses, the
service can only get better if we improve our land use. So it's about embracing our neighbors and being
OK with the increase land use and perhaps increased that ceiling, height restrictions for buildings,
allowing or advocating for fixed income affordable housing, and providing those policies.
And when people see the connection between land use and what it means to live in a single family home
versus a duplex versus an apartment, and the connection that it has service, that's been pretty successful
for folks to go lobby it to make that change if transit is that important to them.
The other piece is on the mall ride and Civic Center, and I get a lot from the C line F line. Now they're
discontinued. Either not getting you to 16th Street or not getting you 16 and California are not getting
good utilization. And what I remind people for folks who are able-bodied is that it's a mile from Union
Station to Civic Center Station. And most people sort of go, oh, yeah, it's a mile. It sort of tells you, well,
this is someone who takes transit and practice what I preach. It's a huge part of my day. I actually enjoy
the walk. I get to go and people really have taken to that.
The other piece is that there's 15 minute headways on 0 which stops at 17th and Market, 17th and
California, and Colfax and Broadway, which pretty much breaks up that ball ride issue to get from A to B
with the exception of maybe you're missing two to four blocks. It's still one transfer and the transfer,
unless I'm wrong, is covered under someone's fair pass.

So that really is a way, again, it's a change to someone's routine and someone's habit, but they actually
have to walk-- they don't have to walk as far if they take the bus to the bus depot because 0 is right there
or the 9, 15, other routes also brought up and down 17th Street, up and down 16th Street that can get you
where you need to be and do it in a way-- Jessie might have to be beyond this, but I think the 0 might get
from Union Station to Colfax and Broadway also to the Civic Center station faster than if you took the free
ball ride.
And so explaining that to people that the suite of services that we have has also been really successful
for me when I talk to folks who are a bit disgruntled about what's been going on. So those are some
things that I just want to share with folks, and we don't really have a medium to this otherwise and bring
some of those comments. I just wanted to address ways that I've confronted them and ways that have
been positive in making change moving forward or at least gotten the constituents happy with those sorts
of answers. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Dishell. That was nice to hear. Director Catlin, I'm going to give
you a second bite of the apple, and then I'll go to Director Lewis, and then I'll give Director Buzek a
second chance. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize. I thought you were going to go to Director Lewis first. I just wanted to say
that I really appreciate the explanation from both Jessie Carter and General Manager CEO Johnson. I
have been guilty in my response to my frustrated constituents of oversimplifying the issue. And the way
you laid it out very well helps me now to be able to, instead of having just a quick response and being
challenged by a constituent, to have a little bit more in-depth conversation based on the information that
you've provided.
So I just wanted to thank you for that because I have been guilty of oversimplifying it and just saying that
it is an operator shortage. So I just wanted to say thank you and did not mean to stir the pot any. I just
was trying to reflect a very angry constituent mentioned to me today, but I do appreciate the explanations.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just had a quick question that came from a constituent.
The constituent was going over the budget and referenced the budget principle for returning to service as
ridership allows. And so just know that that's the premise of this conversation or the premise of this
question. Sorry, there's a baby crying in the background. I'm at home. I don't know, I don't know what to
say. There's a baby.
And so her question here is, gosh, I lost it. Oh, essentially, what are we considering when we are
reinstating routes? And so as you went into the pandemic service plan, what are some of our
considerations as we are reinstating routes?
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Who wants to take that one on? Jessie, you're unmuted.

JESSIE CARTER: I'm unmuted. Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to reiterate the things that we
depend on. And one, to offer Director Dishell a job in service planning. We have a couple openings since
you know our system so well. But at the same time, population density, land use, those are all things that
drive ridership. When we look at our historic ridership activity around our major activity centers, that being
central business district downtown, DIA, where our major employment work populations are. And then we
look at of course where people live, the heaviest density of population.
And our route performance typically reflects that. So as we go to look at our services and we look at what
are the normal or traditional work starts and quits, what was the past peak periods, we look at where our
holes are and try to, again, address the system need. We look at the whole network integrity and how that
new service can plug-in and offer opportunities for transfers to other services.
So when we look at each individual route area, we look at it from both the potential for performance of
that particular service, and then how it ties into the network and what utility does it provide as far as
service to major activity centers, if that makes sense.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's sufficient. Thank you so much. I really appreciate that. I also wanted to just thank
Chair Rivera-Malpiede for her words. I think it's important to bring that into the conversation. I've just
really been grateful for the staff, that they've really prioritized those who have been utilizing our services
throughout the entire time of the pandemic and speaking about communities that are often voiceless,
because they don't have the social capital or the political capital or the financial capital to be able to
engage in these discussions because they are so busy figuring out how to make their lives run and move.
Particularly, I think about our communities in Montebello And Green Valley Ranch where we are seeing
lots of growth there. And although we are seeing lots of growth there, we aren't seeing a lot of increase in
our services in that area. And those have been difficult conversations to have with my residents in Central
Park, but also my residence in Green Valley Ranch who asked for buses, who asked for trains. And
there's a desire to want to give them to them, of course, but we have to be realistic about what our
budgets allow us to do, which is what we do in our personal finances as well.
And so I just deeply appreciate that we are prioritizing the communities that have really stuck beside us
because maybe they had no other choice during the pandemic. And I think we see that reflected in how
we had our peak times and seeing that those no longer exist. Right? And I think it's a reflection that
people aren't traveling in the same way that you may be dealing with folks who are working in retail or
restaurants or et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, that have schedules that are different than a 9:00 to 5:00.
And so thank you so much for that priority. I know it's difficult I know it's difficult for Directors. It's been
difficult for me to go out into my own community. But I think this is where we show up. And this is how we
show up for our communities and how we show up as regional leaders within the system and as regional
electeds. So thank you so much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. OK. I don't see anybody else's hand up, but I'm going to
speak for a minute because I am not only the Chair of this committee, but I'm a Director, too. And when I
read the packet before this meeting, I had some really intense feelings about it, like I've heard from

everybody else here. And I want to point out that RTD is a transit agency. I mean, that's all we really want
to do is provide transportation services as much and as often as we can.
And that sometimes, the more vocal portions of our very large community seem to carry an uneven
amount of weight. The fact that some of our constituents are well-educated and well-organized,
fortunately doesn't mean that they get more service than those of our constituents that we don't hear from
as much to Director Lewis's point. The service department, I believe, and have always believed that they
allocate service where the ridership is the highest and the need is the greatest and not necessarily where
the voice is the loudest.
And in this case, the squeaky wheel isn't getting any more or any less grease than any of the other
wheels. The term equity refers to fairness and justice and is not the same as equality. Equality means
providing the same service to all. And equity means recognizing that we don't all start from the same
place. And then we have to acknowledge and make adjustments. I'm sorry that is relevant to the service
that we're providing now, but it's relevant to all of our lives. So that's my two cents worth.
If I have anyone else who wants to speak, please raise your hand. OK. Seeing no one else, I think I will
call for the vote. I had Chair Rivera-Malpiede as the mover and Director Rosenthal as the second. Are
there any no votes on this action? OK. Seeing no votes, we have 15 aye votes and no no votes and no
abstentions. This motion passes. Directors, please put your microphones back on mute if you haven't,
and we will move on to the next recommended action. Thank you, all.
The next recommended action this evening is for the Board of Directors to adopt revisions to its
committee structure in order to optimize the number of members assigned to each committee to
encourage full and full debate by decentralizing decision making, to leverage members relevant
experience, and promote meeting efficiencies. Whoo, you can work on that one. I believe our staff
representative who's going to give us some information. First, I guess I need a mover and a second on
this.
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Rivera-Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, let me make a note of that. And then I believe that General Manager Johnson is
going to address this action.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thanks, Madame Chair. And my comments are really brief, they're just
introductory as I would like to yield the floor to Directors Cook and Tisdale. But what you have before you
and your packet is a consolidated effort that was put forward by the Directors that I just referenced in
conjunction with John McKay in my office in relationship to having the very informed discussion on
September 14. We committed to basically going back to all of you, leveraging a survey and things of the
like, and then a subsequent survey to clarify some points.

I know there's been a lot of conversation. I want to ensure that everybody that's assembled here, this is
something we were doing to assist you all in your governance, your overarching governance, and want to
ensure that there's no misunderstanding about who is shepherding this effort going forward. Recognizing
that we do spend an inordinate amount of time in meetings, it's important that we are doing the people's
work. And the dialogue that we just have previously is a clear cut indicator of that.
But I want to ensure that we're optimizing efficiencies as the recommendation's stated going forward. So
that's how I wanted to frame the discussion. I really am interested in hearing you all lean into the
discussion as well so we can ascertain what our path forward will be in reference to an optimal committee
structure for the betterment not only of you, but doing the people's work. So with that, Madam Chair, I will
yield the floor to the Directors i.e. Cook, Tisdale as referenced earlier. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Do we have a preference here? Director Tisdale, Director
Cook, who wants to speak?
SHELLEY COOK: I yield to my esteemed Director Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: Ooh, that was nicely said. Said Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. What you see before you is the culmination of,
essentially, two years' worth of work to address the pressing question of, how do we become more
efficient and effective? And we believe that this recommendation which can, of course, be improved upon,
and we're always eager to hear creative and constructive comments relative to that, but we believe that
this is a good starting point for us.
There is one specific recommendation that I know Director Cook will in the first instance address. But I
want you to know that the goal was always and remains and I believe shall continue to be to make us
more effective, to make us more efficient, to give us the opportunity to have a vibrant and robust
discussion in a constructive manner that will give better results to the Board, to the staff, to all of our
customers, to all of our stakeholders, and the entire district.
I believe that this effort at, if you will, streamlining the process will yield very positive results. But fear not,
to the extent that any shortfalls should surface during the course of the next year and following that this is
all going on, the Board can always change things, tweak things, improve upon things. It's not that we're
saying, no, this is it and you can never look at this again. No, of course not. It's always a part of our
dialogue. But it is, I think, a substantial improvement over what we have.
And given the fact that we just spent about 65 minutes on an item that was listed as a 20-minute
discussion item on the last motion, it's perhaps helpful to reflect upon what we're doing tonight and what
we've been doing all these many nights through the years that all of us have been on the Board and say,
surely, there is a better way. And we believe that this is a path toward that better way. And with that,
Madam Chair, with your kind permission, I would yield the floor to Director Cook.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Eloquently spoken as always. Director Cook, do you have
something to add?
SHELLEY COOK: I'll echo a bit of that, and then add another couple of points. The important thing, and I
think talking to some of the Directors at this point was made, it's not perfect. We know it's not perfect. But
the important thing is just to take a step. This restructuring kind of seems mundane or at least not as
directly relevant to the service we provide. But in fact, I think it does have a direct impact on the quality of
our decision making that does impact our constituents.
So it is really important, and I appreciate the fact that we've been able to take it up, and that you all have
been encouraging. I appreciate Rivera-Malpiede's creating the committee and GM CEO Johnson helping
to shepherd it as well. Some of the areas that I think there will be ongoing conversation and are not
precluded by what we're doing tonight if we pass this include the discussion about how external relations- that was brought up by a couple of people-- whether and how we're able to tap Board members'
connections and expertise as issues arise.
For example, Senate Bill 161, I think, there was a real effort to make sure that the Board members who
had particular knowledge or involvement on that issue were able to go down to the Capitol and testify.
Being able to tap your expertise and knowledge and context is going to be pretty important in knowing
how that happens means it probably doesn't need to be like the sole purview of the Executive Committee.
But how that gets fleshed out, I guess, we'll know further.
But another piece was, I think it was Director Williams, Chair Williams's contention that committee
members should serve on at least one committee. And then others have talked about maybe tapping it or
at least acknowledging that five to seven members in a committee, practically speaking, means that most
people or all of us wouldn't serve on more than two. OK? So we aren't explicitly delineating that, but the
numbers may provide for that kind of a distribution.
And I do want to explain, if I may, that the amendment that I hope to bring forward. And if you'd like, I
could make a motion to do that amendment if it would be all right. There is actually two of them. But the
first one is the more substantive one. If that's all right, Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Have at it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, I'll move to amend section eight titled Meeting Schedule, item A, to read a, The
Finance and Planning Committee and the Operations and Safety Committee will typically be scheduled
for the second Tuesday and Wednesday of each month after 5:30 PM. And just to provide a little
background on that, invite staff input as well, we had in the action item indicated those two often active
committees would be on the same night in the second Tuesday of each month.
And as we've seen, whenever Finance and Operations go in the same night, and now we're adding
planning into one of those, it's likely that we'd go later. So that's one issue. From the staff standpoint, here
I hope I'm capturing this, but chime in if I don't. As I understand it, the interest is in having meetings two of
the weeks out of the month rather than three of the weeks out of the month. And I can imagine that for

staff members, everything kind of revolves around the Board meeting and sucks what might be valuable
time spent on the actual operation of the district. So if I misspoke.
But I think that's a real concern, and I hope we are able to allow this which would give us, in some ways,
the best of a couple of worlds and might have the added advantage, as I think it was Director Dishell
pointed out, of including or making it easier for citizens to participate to the extent that some may always
have a commitment on Tuesdays, for example. If we have one committee meeting on a Tuesday and one
committee that same week on a Wednesday, then it may well be that somebody can participate who
otherwise wouldn't be able to.
And by the same token, if somebody on a Tuesday night were faced with waiting through the first meeting
before they could add comment at the second meeting, then that may be difficult, too, for people who are
waiting and then have to go to work early in the next morning. So I'm hoping this kind of gives us a winwin-win in some ways, and hope you will accept the amendment. So that's my long-winded amendment. I
don't think there's a second yet. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook, for my own edification, could you simply state the amendment, and then
I will ask for a movement and a second?
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. OK stating it is that it would amend section eight, Meeting Schedule, item A to
read, a, the Finance and Planning Committee and the Operations and Safety Committee will typically be
scheduled for the second Tuesday and Wednesday of each month after 5:30 PM.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Do I have a movement?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
BOB BROOM: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh! OK. I got a bunch of them. I'll take Buzek as a first, and I think, Director Broom,
was that you seconding?
BOB BROOM: It was.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I will take that. And so now we are going to vote on that amendment, and then
we'll move on because I understand Director Cook has a second amendment. But let's get this one done.
And I'm assuming, Melanie, are you here? If I make a mistake on this, you'll correct me?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair. You might want to take discussion on the motion to amend
before you call for the vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Anybody want to talk about that before we vote? Director Broom,
your hand is up.
BOB BROOM: It shouldn't be.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Not on the amendment. So I see no one wanting to speak to the amendment. We
will go to a vote. Are there any no votes on this amendment?
SHONTEL LEWIS: My hand is up.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's totally fine. I just had a quick question, if I might, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Have at it.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So the concern that I have is not necessarily for us, but maybe those that tune in and
essentially having folks potentially needing to tune in for two nights in a row instead of one night. And
sometimes, it's easier for folks to give up one night versus two. And so I wonder what kind of
consideration has been given for those, our constituents, who might listen in to these meetings?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Cook, do you want to speak to that or Director
Tisdale? Director Tisdale's hand is up I see.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I would like to respond to that because the bottom
line is recall that by moving meetings, in general, to just two weeks in the month and have the two
committees that meet regularly, the Performance Committee would meet less frequently, those two
committees would take up the Tuesday and Wednesday of that week of the month. Then the Board
meeting would take up the Tuesday in the fourth week of the month.
That's just three nights. Currently, the way we operate, we meet at least three Tuesday nights and
sometimes four. That, I think, therefore balances out your concern relative-- at least to some extent-relative to the inability of people to make the meetings and say, well, jeez, now they're going to have to be
busy on two nights. Well, they currently are busy on at least two nights in addition to the Board meeting,
so it really is, I submit, no significant or substantial change. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I might ask that differently. So as someone who has been a young mom,
someone who's had a kiddo who has been in school full time who has held multiple jobs, that it's
sometimes easier to dedicate one night, even if it is consecutive Tuesdays, so the first, second, third,
fourth Tuesday, then to take out two nights of your week as a parent or a full time student or a full time
employee consecutively.
And so my question is really getting at the root of that is, had we considered potentially working families
who would need to maybe skip making dinner for kiddos two nights a week, consecutive nights, versus
understanding that every single Tuesday that you meet at this time, that's more of my question.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I hear you. Director Cook, Director Tisdale, do you want to-- I see Director
Whitmore's hand is up. Were you waiting to have a separate comment or did you want-- OK, we'll wait on
you. Director Dishell, you have a separate comment?
BOBBY DISHELL: No, mine's germane to Director Lewis' comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So I'm going to-- Director Cook, I see your hand is up probably the answer, but I'm
going to let Director Dishell add on since he believes that it's relevant. Go ahead, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I was just going to add on that I was someone who was a proponent of splitting
Tuesday, Wednesday versus just Tuesday. And that stem from input that I got from community members,
which is I can't take Tuesdays off. I work Tuesdays, I can't do Tuesdays. So I will preview that I may bring
an amendment related to public comment to allow people to comment on what's happening that month,
granted to accommodate the fact that some people can come on Tuesdays, some people can come on
Wednesdays.
Some people can't come Tuesday or Wednesday. But by expanding it to Tuesday and Wednesday and
bringing it earlier in the evening as opposed to eight, nine, 10, 11, if we were to stack them, that was, as
someone who advocated for splitting Tuesday, Wednesday, that was the thought process behind it was
that the hope was that it was going to expand opportunity as opposed to, I guess-- actually, it sounds like
maybe it's half a dozen of one, half a dozen of the other. But I appreciate your question. I just wanted to
share, certainly from my own perspective, I advocated for the split.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's helpful.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Lewis, I just want to point out something Is that all
of these meetings you can listen to at any time of the day starting first thing tomorrow morning. And so if
you're not able to attend on Tuesday night, and I understand that, or if you're not able to attend on
Wednesday night, these meetings are always recorded. And as we stand today, you're not able to give
input at the meeting, so anybody who would like to follow the meeting can do so and then can give input
to any one of the Directors after the fact. So I just wanted to throw that in there and the floor is back to
you again, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, and most of the meetings are available just to clarify. But I do appreciate
that. No, Director Dishell, that's very helpful. And so it does make me wonder-- maybe this is later on, and
I'll lean on our General Counsel-- if the amendment needs to be in conjunction with the public, like, if it
needs to be comma, that public comment is offered during each of these committees, and I would feel
much more comfortable with this Amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So I get where you're going with that, because I did my homework and read
everything that's going on. But I think, procedurally, we're going to take it one step at a time. You are
always free to vote against the amendment, but we have a mover and a second. I'm going to take some
more discussion, and we're going to move on to vote on this amendment. If you're OK with that? You're
OK at the moment? OK, thank you, ma'am. Director Whitmore, you're up.

TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. At first analysis of this, I was not too fond of the idea. I
think we're trained to pretty much just take our Tuesday and reserve it for RTD as Board members. And I
had to think that through a lot, and I had a conversation with Director Cook in this regard, several I think.
I've come around to the fact that I think this does make a great deal of sense. For those of us that serve
on a Tuesday night committee, we can observe the Wednesday night committee. We can watch or listen
the next day if we need more facts if you happen to not be on that committee.
But the other point, I think, that was made early, perhaps, by Director Tisdale that I think is really
important and mentioned by others, if this is a plan that is championed by the staff and does free up some
productivity time on some of those other weeks where we don't have a formal prep meeting, I think that's
very useful time to our staff to run the operations of this fine organization. So with that, I don't have much
more to say, so that means I should yield the floor, but I'll be in favor of the amendment. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Whitmore, thanks for the comments.
Actually, my question is to Miss Johnson, just a reaction in terms of what is easier in terms of managing
staff time. I just would appreciate some commentary on it to understand the impact.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Director Davidson. Madam Chair, if I may address this
question?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes ma'am.
MICHAEL FORD: Yes. So in working with Directors Cook and Tisdale, I did take this back to the
leadership team, and we did have a conversation. There is an inordinate amount of time that is spent as
we prepare for these meetings and recognizing that meetings that go to 11 o'clock at night. Oftentimes,
the next morning, we have meetings at 7:00 AM. And it's a constant cycle. With my experience that I had
working at seven different transit agencies, typically they have been biweekly where we've had committee
meetings and then there's been established Board meeting dates. So it's something of which I'm familiar
with.
There's other members on the team that also have worked at various transit agencies or different public
agencies that are accustomed to the same structure. So it seems as if even with Board staff as well, and
Ms. McManus and I have had the conversation as well with her team, it's a constant churning as we're
looking at preparing materials that have to be put into the system. So holistically, it does take away a lot
of time, and I'll just share this. I remember my first week here at the agency. By the time Thursday had
approached, I had already been a part of five meetings.
There was the Operations and Finance Committee that I had, then there was this ad hoc Security
Committee. There was the GMOC meeting and an Executive Committee. And that was within literally four
days and I had already interfaced and had five committee meetings. And I think that we have an
opportunity collectively as we hone in on what it is that we're doing and more or less you all as the policy
body taking things up for consideration because it gives us greater time to do our due diligence and

recognisance to ensure that we were providing you adequate information to make an informed decision
for your constituents.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: You're welcome.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Director Davidson, you good? OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede? No, you got one of
those mouth moving no sound things.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I was so articulate. Thank you, Director Davidson. You were asking the
exact same question I wanted to ask. And watching how much work the staff, both the leadership as well
as our Board staff puts into all of these meetings, I think it's really prudent for us to look at the best way
for all of us to be successful to move forward any kind of information where we need to get to the public
and allowing our staff to be able to do it in a really good timely manner. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I'm looking to see if I see anybody else's hand up that wants to
speak to this amendment, and I do not. So we're going to go to a vote on the amendment that Director
Cook brought forward. I have Director Buzek as the mover, Director Broom as the second. Are there any
no votes? OK. With 15 in favor and no no votes to the amendment, the amendment passes, and the
original movement is amended accordingly. My understanding is Director Cook you have a second
amendment, is that correct?
SHELLEY COOK: I do, and I can follow the procedure from before and just read it, and then you can see
if there is a first and second if you like.
KATE WILLIAMS: That'd be great.
SHELLEY COOK: This is-- I'm characterizing it as housekeeping change-- it's really to amend section
two, the description for standing committees just to make the descriptions consistent with those put
forward for Board members to consider when they took the survey that's shown on packet page 152.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Got the amendment. Do I have someone who would like to move on that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Rivera-Malpiede.
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Let me make a note. OK. Do we have anybody who wants to speak to that
amendment? OK. Seeing none, no discussion on that amendment, we will move to a vote. And I'm going
to continue with the easy way out. Do we have any no votes on this housekeeping amendment? Hearing
none, I'll take that as 15 yeses, no no's, no abstentions. The second amendment is added to the original
movement recommended whatever action, and we will now go back. Director Dishell, I see your hand.

