2023-05-09
Audit Committee Meeting
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

BOBBY DISHELL: The Tuesday, May 9 Audit Committee will now come to order. We are beginning as of
11:00 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are
recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note, the Committee Meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's-- today's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand or wait for me to call on
you before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands
to indicate they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star
6.
I would now like to call the roll for the Committee Directors. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Committee Member Brendel?
JIM BRENDEL: Here
BOBBY DISHELL: Committee Member Olenberger?
JOHN OLENBERGER: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I am here. Any other Directors? I'd like to open public comment to anyone who
would like to address the Committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the
current and immediately preceding body. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either
raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Are any hands raised?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, there are no hands raised, and there were no emails.
BOBBY DISHELL: Wonderful. With no participants in the queue, we will close public comment beginning
at this time. There is one recommended action on the agenda this morning, the actions for the proposed

2023/2024 internal audit grant for the Board of Directors to approve the 2023/2024 internal audit plan. Do
we have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right. I see Director Catlin is the movement. Do I have a second?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second by Director Davidson. I would like to ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer,
to present this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Dishell. And good morning, everybody. It's exciting. We're finally to
the point where we actually have an internal-- or an audit plan ready. It's been a lot of work over the last
couple of years, so I wanted to thank the Committee members, as well as RubinBrown for all their hard
work on this.
This is a proposed plan, and as described in the charter, and Matt and Dave will describe subject to change,
obviously. And there is some additional work that needs to be done with staff to look at timing availability
of staffing and then the scopes of work, too. You'll hear a little bit about that from the gentleman from
RubinBrown. So without further ado, Matt and Dave, if you could go ahead and go through the presentation,
please, that would be great.
MATT MARINO: Thank you, Doug. Yes, as you mentioned, this has been a multi-month process. As you're
probably familiar, we had done an enterprise risk management assessment about 18 months ago. And then
we updated that very recently. So this audit plan incorporates that feedback from Directors, as well as
members of management. And we have gone through and tried to design audits to address the risks that
are most significant to RTD.
It's a plan. There's-- subject to change as things go out-- might come up throughout the year. If there's a
matter that is of extra urgency, audits might get pushed up and delayed in order to make sure that we're
providing the most useful information to the district as soon as possible. So we did scope out an 18-month
plan so that we can work with different departments and personnel at RTD to make sure that we give them
plenty of notice so that they know that they're up for an audit in the near term so that we can make sure
that we give them enough time to prepare the documentation and so on.
And then along with this audit plan, we'll talk about this when we go through the scope a little bit, RTD has
no shortage of audits, whether it be internal audit, external audits, or agencies coming in and monitoring
what's going on in RTD as well. So to the extent that we can, we'll scope the audits to overlap where it's
appropriate, but not overlap to double-test things just to double-test it.
Internal audit's there to not only inform the district of things that might be done better before external people
come in and look at it, but also help us make management decisions going forward on how to strategically
move the organization in different ways, depending on what we're noting in the internal audit department
and audits.
So there's scopes there. We're going to work with management to make sure the scopes are meaningful to
the district and provide good information. So we sketch them out with a good amount of detail and then put

budgets with all of them. There could be times that audits do get cut down from a budget a little bit
perspective, especially if we have a monitoring report from an outside agency that says, here's the things
we notice. We might follow up on those things and then do some other parts of the audit.
But we'll kind of go through the audit in detail here. But I wanted to make sure that-- so let you all know it's
a plan. We're supposed to be dynamic when we're doing audit. We're not supposed to be oblivious of what's
going on around us. So we may monitor-- modify it throughout the year to the extent that we need to.
I, as the Chief Audit Executive, under the charter, do have the ability to do that. But if there are substantial
changes, we'll be sure to bring it back to the Audit Committee so that we can-- we'll let you all know, hey,
we're going to drop this on altogether, because that would be something that would probably not be in the
spirit of what the audit charter was contemplating. But I did want to clarify that before we get into the actual
audit plan. Any questions on that part of it? OK. Well, Dave, do you want me to share my screen, or did you
want to share from your end?
DAVE: I can share.
MATT MARINO: OK. So Dave is going to do some of the detailed discussion. We've taken all the feedback
from the last Audit Committee meeting, while Dave is getting that pulled up, and we made sure to either
prioritize audits as well as scope things as recommended by the Audit Committee meeting we had last
month.
And then we'll take additional feedback. This is our one last chance to get some additional feedback before
we bring it to the entire Board of Directors to bless the audit plan. That was some of the feedback when we
had the reviews from our peer agencies is the design of the internal audit function was not reporting to the
Board in the ideal manner.
And so this is that exercise of reporting to the Audit Committee and recommending that go to the Board so
that the Board can provide their correct fiduciary oversight and be informed, but also not have to be bogged
down in too much detail.
DAVE: Everyone can see the screen, correct?
MATT MARINO: Correct.
DAVE: All right. So I can just talk through some of the changes since we first discussed in-- back in April.
As Matt noted, this was changed to an 18-month internal audit plan. That was largely due to getting a later
start this year and just speaking with CFO MacLeod, that we can definitely get going this year and roll right
into next year and not have to rescope and do all the planning that might be entailed with that. And then
that gives us greater flexibility, as we talked about timing.
So once we discuss with management, hey, now's not maybe a good time to come in and do this audit.
We're just finishing up another audit, or we're revamping our entire process. So examples like that, we can
definitely adjust more quickly if we have another audit to pull up and vice versa.
So what's changed for the 18-month plan-- audits were included or added based on that risk assessment
as well as management requests and just really also providing extra time that I've brought up before, is a
best practice to be able to respond to fraud or anything new that might come up as far as-- we need to look
at this vendor or that. So examples like that.

We just-- as Matt mentioned, we also added the hours, so that gives a better idea of the scope or magnitude
of a particular audit. So some of the larger audits are 300 hours, the 280 hours, as we see here. Some of
the smaller ones that we anticipate are closer to the 160 hours.
We've also added if there was issues with, for example, the Colorado State Audit report, that we might want
to also address or look into the action plans, whether they were implemented properly. So we've identified
that under the Rationale column.
Other notable things that Matt hasn't already mentioned-- I believe-- so really, it's-- as I mentioned, when
we start getting into-- so the scope description-- I wouldn't get too caught up into that because a lot of that
is just from our discussions that we've had with Board members and Executive Management and some of
our ideas. But as we get into things, we might find that some of it is not relevant or not even applicable. So
as we get into it and start reading policies and discussing with management, that will be more refined.
I believe most of these here were in the previous one that we spoke about. We did talk about public safety
and moving that one around. So that one that will also require additional refinement based on just other
things that are going on within the organization. Maybe the Compliance department might be reviewing,
and we don't want to double audit something and provide zero value.
MATT MARINO: Dave, I think we have a question from Director Catlin.
DAVE: Yes. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks. I went through this, and I wanted to thank you for the level of detail. I just was
curious if you were going to have an anticipated release date of the draft audit or something for us to look
at? I see that you have the planned timing, but I was just wondering when the deliverable might be
anticipated.
DAVE: So typically, the audit lifecycle is, let's say, two to three months. Prior to the audit field work, there's
at least two, maybe even four weeks of planning. And then after the audit is completed-- we haven't
discussed with management as far as metrics on delivering our report. It would be our goal to provide
something relevant before our audit recommendations maybe are even out of date.
But within a month, I would hope, would be an achievable metric. And then I guess that would be reported
to the Audit Committee at the following quarterly meeting. Yeah. So we're scheduled for approximately
quarterly meetings. We'll try to honor that in order to not bog you down with too many meetings. But we will
definitely try and schedule out. We feel like these audits will be reported at this quarterly meeting based on
where we're at in the audit plan so that you know what you might be getting or goodies to chew on.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: I just quickly want to note for the record Director Guzman has joined us. Director Catlin,
do you have any further questions? Great. Mr. Brendel?
JIM BRENDEL: Thank you. Just a clarifying question. I'm assuming, then, that there'll be a report for each
of these projects and not one big report at the end. Is that correct?
DAVE: That's correct.

JIM BRENDEL: Thank you.
DAVE: And typically, we would just provide the executive summary if you needed further information on the
report or want to review the full report. And I-- actually, we need to discuss, but usually, I think the Audit
Committee would be part of the distribution for the full report.
JIM BRENDEL: I appreciate it.
BOBBY DISHELL: And going forward, after this meeting, if we could get just another column added with
estimated draft report delivery timing, that would be great, just so we can make sure we're keeping things
on task.
DAVE: Yeah. And I anticipate that we would provide two every quarter where an audit was scheduled to
be. Because as we talked about, things shifting, and to where it might move to. But then with that, yes, it
would have anticipated report.
BOBBY DISHELL: All-righty. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: And we're holding-- just on the off chance that the full Board of Directors does not decide
to replace an audit in higher emphasis, and maybe bump it up in the importance. This Audit Committee-we're hopeful that this will be the majority of the changes, but we're not-- we're open to the feedback for
some additional emphasis or additional urgency if something were to come up between now and when we
present this to the full Board of Directors later this month. So.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. So I'm assuming that after these are-- after we have reviewed these
reports and they're released, that they will be put in some sort of an area on our website where we could
review the whole report if we chose to do so or if other Board members wanted to see the full audit report?
MATT MARINO: I believe we're working on it. The nature of some of it might include PII or other-- so we'll
work with District Legal Counsel in order to abide by Colorado open records, but also make sure we provide
the reports for review. So.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Dave, go ahead.
DAVE: OK. So I think I'll just flip through this pretty quickly, but noting any significant additions. We did add
the ERP project participation. So that is obviously, depending on when the agency does get going on, if
they are going to be switching over ERP systems. But that's really more of-- an internal audit always is-- a
best practice to have a seat at the table to help in the design and implementation of that to get ahead of
things that might arise.
The federal, state, and local regulations oversight review is really more of just to get an understanding of
how the agency compiles and tracks all the different regulations that they need to abide by.
The shift scheduling review-- that is one that is a result of the Colorado State auditor report, so we'd want
to look into the action items there. The IT vulnerabilities is a new one. So that was not in the original one
that we spoke about in April, but something that we anticipate that could be undertaken in early 2024.

The Denver Transit Partner review is something that we felt that a review of third parties needs to be done.
And we could cycle in-- maybe even do a mini risk assessment of all the different vendors and figure out
which ones could benefit from being reviewed annually or every other year or whatever the cycle might be.
But this is one-- a larger one that we felt that was safe to add that to the schedule to review next year.
And then some of these are more of the administrative ones that we would do towards the end of 2024, just
to move us in and get us a fresh list of risks to build our internal audit plan as well as time to follow up on
action items from audits that we do this year and next year. So that one would be-- we'd set up a quarterly
review with management to go over those items. We can also add items from other audits outside of internal
audit, too, if that's a desire of management, to help track those, and as well as making it in time for just ad
hoc management requests.
So that's the additional hours. That's about 3,200 hours, I believe, or so, which is about midway between
what was a year one and a year to two audit plans for the two months. So actually probably a little bit shorter
on hours so we do have a little leeway on some of those. Do we have a question from-BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, John. Go ahead.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. I had a couple questions on the specific audits. The first one was the-and you actually answered one of my questions. I also had a question on the budget and how the hours
aligned with the budget and if they do tie-in to where we are with-- financially. So that one-- thank you for
answering that.
On the HR-- maybe if you could go up, it looks like it's packet page 7. I just wanted to make sure that we
were looking at employee turnover and reasons for leaving. And I do see that is at the bottom there. We do
have a thing that says turnover, HR indicators. But I just want to make sure that is going to be a portion that
we're going to be looking at, why are people leaving.
Because I think we have two different things. We want to get people into positions, especially operator
positions, and then also why are people leaving, and is there some control that we might have over that to
try to retain the employees that we have.
So I guess, does that cover it, that last bullet point and the turnover there? I guess I'm thinking about taking
a look at exit interviews, maybe looking into what HR has done about it, and actions that the district has
taken to try to retain employees.
DAVE: You must have been overhearing some of our planning meetings, because we did discuss this. So
we actually had a separate one, which we could still add or modify. But we took that third one and dispersed
it between the two HR ones we have here. But yes, we have one-- or at least we want to talk about the
termination process and including exit interviews, like you mentioned, and really, yeah, getting to the root
cause of why people are leaving. Because obviously that helps management get a better idea.
And ultimately, internal audit want to provide value into what we're doing. So the more we can provide,
obviously, of course, based on metrics that we're able to obtain, the better that we can move forward on.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. Perfect, yeah, I like that root cause, as opposed to just, well, did you do the
ABC of the termination? Did you terminate their access, blah, blah, blah? But actually, why are people
leaving in the first place, and what can we do to try to stem that and improve that. And then the final question
that I had-- thank you for adding the safety audit in there. I actually saw there's two safety audits in there.

And I was wondering if you could comment on the purpose of breaking out those two into two safety audits
as opposed to just one audit on safety, covering both bullet points.
DAVE: Yeah-BOBBY DISHELL: I think that's in the next couple of pages, or it's on page 8 and 9.
DAVE: Yeah. Yeah. So the first one that we discussed-- so this one is more the-- so actually, I'm looking at
my notes really quick. But yeah, this, I think, stems from a discussion with management and the fact that it
would-- there were some corrective action plans out there for us to look at and build into our audit scope
[INAUDIBLE] making sure that's what we addressed.
But really more on the flip side, like what is the actual cause-- or I guess it was-- sorry, I'm thinking back to
more policies and procedures related on one, versus actually looking at results and metrics and how the
agency responded to things [INAUDIBLE] the other. That's how that was broken out.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. So is the policy of procedure the first one, and then the response the second
one?
DAVE: Yes, correct.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK.
DAVE: Yep, response on this one. Yep.
JOHN OLENBERGER: And does part of that have to do-- I think-- Doug, I think you had said that there's a
new process going into place, or perhaps a new Director, or some new things where we might want to take
an initial look, but then also give it some time to see how things have transformed? Is that part of the reason
for bifurcating this?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, correct. And one of the other things-- that's a great question. The answer is yes.
The other thing that we really need to take a look at on some of these compliance issues is that we're not
overlapping or overstepping into regulatory bodies. So there's obviously certain bodies looking at some of
these issues, such as the PUC, et cetera. So that will take some coordination in the scope and what we're
really looking at. And this would be a good example of that. Melanie, did you have something you wanted
to add?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah. Thanks, Doug. If I may, Chair. So just for clarity, at RTD, we're really making a
distinction when we talk about safety versus security. Those mean really different things, operationally. So
safety we typically use to refer to our operational safety, so our vehicles, our infrastructure, our safety
management system.
And then security we typically use to refer to personal security, what our transit police officers-- how they
respond to, for example, operator assaults, so more personal security. So that's just something that's
aligned with our strategic plan and how we are tracking those measurables and deliverables. We use those
terms to mean very different things.
JOHN OLENBERGER: And I see both audits have-- they say public safety and security review, public safety
and security review, incident response. So are both audits intended to cover both the safe driving of buses,
as an example, as well as the assaults on trains, type stuff, both safety and security?

MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah. I can defer to Doug, but I think the intent was to have the first one to be safety
related, and the second one that you were talking about be security, a security review.
JOHN OLENBERGER: OK. And if that is the case, perhaps we could tweak the audit title a little bit, just to
make it clear that first one is going to focus on safety and the second one's going to focus on security.
DAVE: Yeah. And to give Melanie credit, she did mention that in her notes. So that was-- the safety part
was supposed to be the, like you said, the first one, and then security and vice versa for the other one.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Got it. I do see the distinction. And thank you for that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson? Or, sorry. Director Catlin's first. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: That's OK. And, Melanie, you said aligning with the strategic plan-- and that was going to
be my comment, that-- and this might be directed towards management or staff, that-- and I don't want to
get too many columns in this plan.
But it would be nice to have something to talk about which areas of strategic-- the strategic plan that these
audit support. So for example, the HR would be employee ownership. I just think that might be useful so
that we can see that this internal audit plan is really meant to support our strategic objectives.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks. Thanks for the clarity on this safety and security. So in my initial read, it
made sense, Dave, what you were saying, that the first one was going to be very policy and procedure, the
second one being response. But in the conversation we just had about breaking this between safety and
security, with the first one being safety-- just to be clear, would that mean that the first audit would be both
policies and procedure and response from a safety standpoint and looking at safety?
And then the second audit on page 9 would be-- I'm sorry. Yes. Then the second audit on page 9 would be
security, both policy, procedure, and response? Is that what we're saying?
DAVE: I would probably defer to-- from our discussions with management on what the best approach would
be, obviously with timing of things, and to not overstep with other agency audits. But the-- I believe that
could be a very good approach, just to cover it that way and stay out of-- and more of a learning process
for us, too, to be able to read the policies and gain an understanding, and then start developing the scope
for the second audit.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And so it may be that-- so with that, it may be that we have safety, and we have security,
and each have two, being policy, procedure, and then response. So in effect, the safety and security would
break out into four audits, two for safety, two for security?
DAVE: I think that could be a good approach. I would probably still-- maybe that would be an update that
we provide at the next Audit Committee meeting after further planning, timing-wise.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK.
DOUG MACLEOD: And, Director Davidson, if I might suggest, at least for this audit plan, perhaps we
include each of those items within each section, just to keep them as single items, and then as we get more
into working with staff and the subject matter experts and the regulatory things that are going on, we can

more clearly define exactly what the scope of those audits would be, if that's OK. But your point is well
taken, that we should probably include each of those items in both and then potentially break them down
into smaller units once we do a scope review.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Yeah, I just wanted to make sure to be clear on that, since we're both
saying safety security. I think this was a good discussion of clarity. And thanks, John, for raising that. Yeah,
that makes sense. I'll yield the floor back. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. John?
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you. I just put in my two cents on this. I know we had initially talked about a
part one and part two of safety and security. But as we've evolved this, I would suggest that one is safety,
and the other is security, and they're each one, standalone audit as opposed to part A and part B for safety
and part A and part B for security. That's how we would normally do it. That's how I would personally do it.
And it seems to me that would make the most sense. So I would probably just adjust the audit project titles.
I think-- taking a second look at the scope descriptions, I think they already kind of follow. Number one was
safety oriented, and number two is security oriented. So I would just recommend doing them as single,
discrete audits, one safety, one security.
DAVE: Yeah. And I believe that's the initial indication that we're hearing from management without having
those detailed conversations. I think that's pretty much for our presentation of the plan. Is there any other
questions?
BOBBY DISHELL: Any other questions before I add a few notes?
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, if I might just summarize real quickly what we would like to do, then, with this
audit plan?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. I have some feedback for you first, though.
DOUG MACLEOD: Oh, please, go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: I think, John, if you have one more, go ahead.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Yeah. I just had a point-of-procedure question, since I'm kind of new to the Audit
Committee thing-- not new to audit, but Audit Committee. So I'm assuming that we're-- the goal here is to
motion, or perhaps the motion's already been made and we're having discussion, and then we're going to
take a vote on it. Can we vote to approve it with the discussion-- like, maybe there's some certain bullet
points that we put and say, well, we talked about changing the project titles around a little bit, and motion
to approve it with the minor changes? Is how that would work?
BOBBY DISHELL: General Council?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, I think for a document like this-- I mean, I'm not hearing huge, substantive
changes, like remove a whole audit or replace-- add an audit. So I don't think you need to have a specific
motion that says, on line 14, change this word to that word. I think staff is taking notes right now. And then
Doug, I would assume that when this gets presented to the full Board, those notations would be made.
DOUG MACLEOD: Right.

MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. The idea today would be to adopt this recommended action to adopt this
proposed plan and send it to the full Board for consideration.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. A few just additional asks trying to summarize certainly what I've heard today. One
is adding scheduled completion date to chart whatever way makes sense. The other is hours against
budget. It would be good to see, generally-- so there's 3,200 hours contained in this plan. It would be great
to see what that is against the budget.
And then on a quarterly basis, as we go forward with meetings, it would be good to see if-- right now, 160
hours is budgeted. If we can see in real time how many of those hours have we spent versus how many
are still outstanding. Strategic plan alignment would be the other one that I noted. Let's make sure it's in
there, and that-- just adjusting the safety and security, as we've discussed today.
The other items I would just add-- there are-- we've done a lot of APTA peer reviews which are great to
have. It would be good to know for the Board, from audit, from the agency, but also from the Board
perspective, to know how we're doing against those recommendations. They're obviously not binding. But
if there was a choice to not adhere to a recommendation from a study or a report that we commissioned,
asking for recommendations, it would be good to understand why from a Board perspective.
And then my last comment is I believe our collective bargaining agreement is up in 2025. And as a result,
there are a number of more employee-focused represented h focused items in this audit. When we start to
negotiate, what could we start, or would we start negotiating, assuming we don't exercise an extension in
2025?
Because they're really trying to make sure that the audit is scheduled so that should we begin negotiations
on a new CBA for the '25 expiration, that the team has what they need from the audit side, to make sure
that we comply to have that data information. So I don't know who wants to take what the CBA is up first,
but when that process starts, maybe we could give it over to the audit.
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure. This is Doug MacLeod. I can start with the CBA. So the current collective
bargaining agreement is January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2024. Our intent internally is to begin
scheduling and planning and then meeting about mid-year next year, 2024, with the anticipation of having
that new CBA completed and ratified by the end of the year.
And it might actually be springtime, now that I think about it, because we did move the schedule back. It
used to be a January 28-- March 1 through January 28 schedule. Now that we're on a calendar year basis,
yeah, we'll probably begin those discussions earlier in the year, springtime 2024. Dave, Matt, can you talk
to the other issue?
DAVE: As far as including the hours against budget, we definitely will put that in. And I think that's one thing
we also need to talk to management as to what the year is that this budget. Because I think our contract
was approved June of 2022. And then, so are we going to be on the half year, or are we going to annualize
that, make it calendar year? But once we have that, we'll be able to tell you a better idea of the hours and
then track against those for sure.

The estimated completion of the audit reports [INAUDIBLE]. I'm trying to think of the best way to present it,
when-- maybe it'd just be a separate table as far as audits and when we expect the report out to be. So
then you might go into a particular meeting and expect to see three report outs, and if not, why. So we
would give rationale for that strategic plan alignment. Yes, we could do that. I think it does look like we have
room here for an extra column, so that's not a problem.
And then making those minor changes to the project titles, sure. So I think we can make those in short
order. And I believe-- I don't know if there will be any additional lines needed on it after your approval, but
we'll work through that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. I think it looks like we should have everything done for that spring of
'24 timeline, Doug. And I'll defer to you and Ms. Snyder and your respective teams for adjusting timing of
audits if there are certain ones that you think we really are going to want this heading into negotiations, just
to make sure that those are properly scoped in time, knowing that that's coming up and somehow, probably
in 12 months, just under.
MATT MARINO: Yeah. We definitely can do that under the approval of management, as well as your Chief
Audit Executive can bump it up so that we have relevant information in time to make strategic decisions
and negotiations. So we will definitely make sure we work in concert with Doug and his team as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Any other discussion on this item? Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Sorry to take another bite here. Procedurally, when would we anticipate taking this-- I'm
assuming we would have to take it to the Executive Committee to get it on the agenda for the full Board
approval? So I'm just asking a procedural question. That might be Melanie.
BOBBY DISHELL: This is a standing Committee, and so even though it doesn't meet monthly, the standing
Committee can push a motion to the full Board.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So then if we approve this at this point, then we could send it to the full Board this
next month?
BOBBY DISHELL: Correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, good. I just think that would be positive.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Tai-Shrae?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: I just wanted to confirm that this item would be on the May 23 agenda.
BOBBY DISHELL: That is my understanding, assuming it passes. The last discussion item I'd note, just in
terms of making sure the full Board is engaged with audit, is that should this pass, that it gets pulled from
the unanimous consent agenda, recognizing the importance of having the full Board in the audit process in
addition to this Committee.
Any other discussion? OK. Are there any no votes on this action? OK. With five ayes and zero no's and no
abstentions, the motion passes. There are no discussion items on the agenda today. Are there any other
matters to come before the Committee? Director Davidson?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Chair. I just wanted to take a moment just to thank everybody here. I
know it was said at the beginning, Doug MacLeod, you said it. This is a lot in the making of getting to this
point and reacting to peer reviews, reacting to audits from the Office of the State Auditor, and everybody
on this call has been a big part of making this actually happen and joined the team here.
And John and Jim, it's great to have you on board joining us to help with this. We had a lot of discussion
about what the composition of this Committee needed to be.
I just wanted to take a moment just to look at the fact that we're passing an audit plan, recognize the work
that's gone into this, and really genuinely say thank you to everybody here and everybody not here who's
been involved in taking this important step. So with that, I'll conclude. But just makes me happy. Brings a
smile to my face. So thank you, team, truly.
BOBBY DISHELL: Absolutely. Matt?
MATT MARINO: Yes. I was just going to provide an update that we did receive communication from the
Office of the State Auditor that they are slated to start one of their performance audits in July of '23. We
knew that was coming, so I just wanted to let you all know that we'll make sure we take that into
consideration as we scope our audit plan. But we wanted to report to you as the Audit Committee that we
have been notified that is upcoming.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. And I would just ask if we could-- similar to how we ask external audit
to provide a monthly update on that scope as the Chief Audit Executive [INAUDIBLE] similarly once that
gets underway, just provide a written update with that Office of State Auditor audit that we can pass to the
full Board that would be great.
MATT MARINO: Can do. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just wanted to-- I know you're going to talk about the next Audit
Committee meeting. I just wanted to give a little bit of information to this body regarding why the change.
Just to go back in history, last year, the 2021 Annual Comprehensive Financial Reporter Act for our annual
audited financial statements for RTD was approved by the Board in June.
We were shooting again-- we initially anticipated having that done in May for the 2022 audit. That got
pushed back to June due to some delays and additional work regarding GASB 87. It's a standard that was
implemented, very complicated. I'm sure many of you are aware that it has to do with leases and putting
leases-- everything now for a lease is now considered something that needs to go on the balance sheet,
where previously, it was in the footnotes. So it took a lot of work to actually put that together and pull all the
information, find all the-- what's considered leases under this new standard.
In addition to that, we have a new Auditor. Plante Moran is now doing the audit for the salaried trusts. That,
combined with the fact that we had some turnover in the salaried trust administrative staff with BeneSys
has delayed some of the communication, information testing of items that would necessitate us pushing
back that act for approval for 2022 into July.
So in discussions via email with the Chair, notified the Chair that we preferred to bring that-- instead of in
June, having a June accounting-- account-- Audit Committee meeting, a July Audit Committee meeting to

bring that forth, which would include disclosures from the audit, any findings, any recommendations, and a
full opinion.
Along with that, I just wanted to let the Committee know, in speaking with Matt, we'll get additional
information to you. But because of the timing of a July review of that act for hopefully a July approval by the
full Board to accept that 2022 ACFR into the record, there are state requirements to at least provide a draft
of that ACFR] to the governing body before June 30.
So our intent would be to send out a communication to Board members with the draft of that financial
document. It will not contain the audit opinion yet. And it may be missing some information that would not
change the disclosure of the financial statements related to these trusts. So we need to do a little bit more
investigation here on staff side to look at the timing of that. But we do intend to provide a draft.
I would say, though, that we are providing unaudited financial statements on a monthly basis to the Board
briefing. So there's current financial information out there. We are using the year-end unaudited-- draft
unaudited financial statements as the basis moving forward. So it should be good, current financial
information that we are posting. It's just a delay in the presentation of that item. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. Any other matters? Yeah, go ahead.
JOHN OLENBERGER: I guess just from Doug's comment, did I understand correctly that the June Audit
Committee meeting on June 5 is going to be pushed to July? So should we take that June one off our
calendar, then?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, correct. And I've just notified the Board Office just yesterday. So I'll work with them,
and we'll get a Doodle poll out and ask to reschedule that to July and cancel the June meeting. That was
the only agenda item that was scheduled for the June meeting, unless this Committee wants to discuss
something else. We could hold that date.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Other matters? OK. The agenda indicated next meeting date discussed was scheduled
for June 5, 2023. However, due to delays in receiving information from the complete salary and trust audit,
which is required to complete the 2022 ACFR, the next Audit Committee meeting will be scheduled for a
to-be-determined date in July. Seeing no other discussion, this meeting is adjourned at 11:46 AM. Thanks,
everyone.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you, everyone.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, team.

