2020-10-22 EC
VINCE BUZEK: --here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook, are you on? Yep.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, I am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yay. And I see Director Tisdale. And let's see who else. Ms.
McManus. Who is it with the last four digits of 0958 on the phone?
JOHN MCKAY: That's John McKay.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh. He joined. I should know that number. OK. Let's see.
PEGGY CATLIN: Who ends in 84?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Let's see.
NATALIE MENTEN: Again, Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: That yellow card they give us is really helpful, if anybody still has that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, well, you know what-NATALIE MENTEN: It lists phone numbers.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't have that in front of me. Sorry. Especially when you're
navigating these pieces of stuff.
Mr. Ballard, welcome. OK. We're ready to go.
I'd like to call the October 22, 2020 Executive Committee to order. It is 11:32 Mountain
Standard Time. We are doing this remote because of COVID. And so we have all of the
Executive Committee members online. We have Treasurer Guissinger, Secretary Buzek, First
Vice Chair Catlin, Second Vice Chair Cook. We also have Director Tisdale and Director
Menten, Mr. Ballard, Barbara McManus, and Mr. McKay.
First thing I'd like to do is to see if we have an approval for the Board meeting for the next Board
meeting. Do we have approval?

PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Catlin and Buzek. Any discussion?
NATALIE MENTEN: There's a correction on the minutes. This is Menten. Do you want that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So this was the-- let me make sure I'm on the right one here. So
this would be the September 29 Board meeting. And I note on-- I'm scrolling back down here-that on page-- it's actually the very last page of the document, when we approved the GM
contract, what it states, on vote on motion is that we had motion passed by acclamation with 14
in favor. And that would be motion passed with 13.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Are you saying someone wasn't in attendance? We'll have to look
back at that
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Director Folska was not present at that meeting. And so with one
against, one gone, that would be 13. And that's backed up under the results right below that. So
simply the vote on the motion line needs to be corrected.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, we'll take a look at that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there any other discussion or comments? OK. Then all in
favor of moving forward the agenda for the Board meeting with those changes, please signify by
say aye. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Tisdale.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not a voter.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. Then it passes unanimously. I'm an aye.

Boy, unless-- is there any other matters to come before the Board? I mean, from the Executive
Committee. I don't have anything else, which feels really weird. Am I missing something here?
But it is a unanimous moving. Does anybody have anything else?
DOUG TISDALE: Count your blessings, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm just like in shock, Director Tisdale.
BARBARA MCMANUS: My hand is raised.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh. OK, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, no, no. Please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Just a reminder that there'll be an Executive Session, which we just
approved, but that it will not be legal. It will be a review of the initial recommendations for the
state audit. We were going to-- I know that most of this group was on the GMOC meeting this
morning. But I did want to bring up a conversation regarding the retreats.
Now I know that in the 120-day plan that Debra has dovetailed pretty well with her dates with
the Board retreat and the Board SLT retreat. I don't know if this Committee or the Board would
entertain any suggestions from Debra in doing this differently.
But one of the things that we have been working on is talking to some folks that have been doing
strategic planning in a remote manner, which I believe we will be needing to do, at least in
February, maybe in March. I'm not sure. And some of the lessons learned that the folks that I
spoke to was that you can't do a meeting, like normally we would do a half day. And doing a half
day remote meeting just is not effective.
And so some of the lessons learned and suggestions is that we do either a Friday morning and a
Saturday morning, where we would do brainstorming and do breakout sessions on the first day.
And then overnight, we would compile, ourself and whoever the facilitator is, would compile
what comes out of those breakout sessions. And then those groups would present their thoughts
and ideas the following day, moving forward some ideas to bring to the Board and SLT retreat.
So that would be two three-hour sessions. They have done a morning and an afternoon. That
hasn't been as effective.
So I just want to give this group some of these thoughts as they come through. John and I will be
working on writing the RFP. We probably won't put it out until right before November. So
sometime after the 9th, when Debra starts, and in the midst of the 120-day plan, if we, with this
group or the whole Board, at some point, have a conversation about what the strategic planning
retreats look like going forward and what the thoughts are with the different remote venues that
we have as options.

And I'll continue to speak to folks at APTA, as well as other vendors that I've dealt with over the
past 10 years, and try to continue to get some best practices on how these are being moved
forward. Because it will look very different for us this year.
I just wanted to also mention, we were trying to figure out how to do some sort of incoming,
outgoing Board of Director celebration that we normally have during the election cycle. The
Chair and I had talked about a couple of different options. With the new guidelines that were just
brought forward from the health departments with even less people being able to be together, I'm
not sure what that looks like. But I open that up for ideas to this group, if there's something that
you've seen or other groups are doing that we could look at. I don't want to minimize it and do
nothing, but it looks like whatever it is may have to be remote. So just some thoughts on that are
appreciated.
We are also working on what the installment of new Directors looks like. Normally we have a
judge from the outside come and all of the folks are recognized, they go through the oath all at
the same time. If we did it remotely, we would have to do each of the new Directors individually.
Because in most of these forums, we can't have multiple people speaking at the same time. It
doesn't manage well that way.
So I just wanted the Executive Committee to know that my team is on top of all these things. I
don't know what it will ultimately look like. But we're working on them all. I provided the Chair
with a list of RFPs that are coming up between now and the end of the year, just so she has an
idea of the volume of what's coming forward.
Again, I'm working with Pauletta with a list of stakeholders that have requested time on Debra's
schedule. And she's going to be getting me that list so that we know what that looks like. If we
decide that we, as the Board, want to add folks to that list, anybody that hasn't specifically
reached out, and we also want to make sure, as brought forward by Director Lewis earlier today
in GMOC, that if those meetings take place in a public forum, that the Directors in those
Districts are included, along with other elected officials.
That's all I have. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: First Vice Chair Catlin, you had your hand up originally. Do you
have a question or a comment?
PEGGY CATLIN: Just a couple comments. With regard to any kind of transitional, old Board,
new Board, outgoing Board, incoming Board, that's tricky. But I would say in light of our
budgetary woes, we need to probably be as mindful of [AUDIO OUT] as anything else.
And with regard to breaking up the retreat into smaller components, Director Tisdale and I have
been participating in the E-470 Board retreat, which actually has been broken up into three
phases. And I had participated in previous years for the E-470 Board retreat, and it was usually
an all-day thing. So I think they have learned that you have to break it up into smaller chunks.
And so I just wanted to make that comment that we were experiencing that as well.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Unmuting there. Thank you. Thanks, Barbara, for all of that. I think you
started off by saying, you know, would we be open to new ideas from Debra? And I would give
that a big yes. I'd love to hear-- Paul went through the retreat last year. So if you have thoughts,
Paul, you've been through them in other places, I'm sure.
I just, I'm not feeling like we come out of the retreat with the kind of goals we need to come out
with. And I wish I could say real specifically, this is what I think we need to do. But I'd like to
explore it I'm not sure that having the same facilitators every year moves us in the best direction,
and just seeing if there are other ways to set our goals that are sort of more outcome-driven,
things like that.
So I'm happy to do some thinking on it, but I just wanted to say that I think some thinking on it is
worth doing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Second Vise Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I agree with those comments, and actually just sent something through
earlier today. And then before we end today, on a different topic, I'd hope to get some of the
background or whatever report we have on that internal audit. Oh, my god, big. Because it isn't
the committee in Finance, I'd like sort of a heads up on some of the issues they're going to bring
forward. If we have a report already, can I, or we, get a copy of that before the Executive
Session?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So to Director Cook's comment, the conversation that I have been
hearing is that that audit would not be released ahead of time, that it's a draft document, it's a first
run, and that they did not have plan on releasing that to the Board of Directors, was my
understanding.
Secondly, to Director Guissinger's comment, yeah, that's why I wanted to start an RFP. And let's
see what direction. I'm glad that we agree as a committee that some thoughts of new ideas
coming forward with what Debra has done in the past could change things a bit. But I do want to
remind everybody that we do-- it's written in the bylaws that we have these retreats and that they
happen by the end of the first quarter, which is why the timing is the way it is set up, and, as I
said, it dovetails really well with what Debra is put forward in her first 120 days.
So I just wanted to be mindful of that. Changes are welcome. And I think that if there is a new
and different way to move forward in setting strategic plan, then that this Board would welcome
it. I know that the Board Office would welcome it. We've been doing it the same-- well, almost
the same way. We've changed it over the years a little bit as we've moved along. But basically,
it's been the same sort of process.

And in terms of utilizing the same facilitators, so last year Spero and Company was the only one
that responded to facilitation. So that's how they wound up being with us. Now if we're going to
be doing it remotely, we can cost effectively open this up to a much larger range of folks across
the country to manage this.
So I just wanted to throw that out there that I'm working with procurement for them to do some
homework and figure out some facilitators outside of the Denver metro area that have a great
reputation to move forward. And I've also asked Gregg Moser if he has any folks in mind that we
could add to that RFP, so that hopefully we get more of a response than we have because we will
be dealing with it remotely. If, in fact, we can get together by next March, as long as everybody
understands that we would have to come up with additional dollars to get that facilitator here for
the retreat, then I think that we should open it up to a much broader spectrum of folks. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam. I agree with Director Guissinger. I would love to see a new
way of approaching our goal setting and doing something really different. Susan Spero, I mean,
they've done a great job in herding this group of [AUDIO OUT], and they've done a good job.
And I'd like us to really look at something unique and different, and maybe even the way we
structure our goals and objectives, as well. So somebody that can bring in fresh ideas. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, and one more thing. I'm OK with the break. I'm also OK with breaking it
up. I think, as Barbara indicated, I think that makes a lot of sense too. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Actually, Barbara stole my thunder. I was going to
suggest that Gregg Moser might be a really good person to ask about facilitation. He worked
with us for several months and kind of understands the dynamics of the Board. And I think that's
a really good suggestion. So I was going to make the same one. So thank you for that.
And I agree with Director Guissinger and Buzek, and also Director Cook and I have same
conversation, I really believe that we need a different set of goals and a new way of setting goals.
So I think more outcome-based. So I would support that and. I'd like to do a little more thinking
about that as well Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just was curious, without-- you may need more time, but Paul, do you
have some ideas? I'm sure you've gone through these processes with other agencies.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: He was my next call. I was going to-LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.

PAUL BALLARD: Thank you for asking. You know, I came here, and if you remember, that
was like one of the last meetings that we could actually sit with each other. Because I think it
was March 7. And then within three or four days, everything shut down. But it was particularly
helpful to me because it was an opportunity to observe everybody's point of view. I think we had
14 out of 15 Board members in attendance. And it was very, very helpful to me.
And I don't want to go into a lot of detail. I think the one observation that I would share with you
is that generally you do your goals and objectives somewhat simultaneously, but certainly tied
into your budgeting process. Because you have to do goals with your budget in mind. And so
what I have always tried to do elsewhere is some sort of parallel process. They don't have to be
exactly the same time, but they need to be plugged in together.
So as you develop your budget, you set your goals consistent with the budget that's available for
the next year or the next multiple of years. And so that's probably the bottom line suggestion that
I would come up with. And I can certainly give it some more thought. But that's probably my
basic suggestion is that the two be more closely tied together. But thank you for asking.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. You know, I would have to say that I share the same
sentiment as my colleagues that we really are at an unusual time in history where we can really
make some changes and think outside of the box. And I think that this is our time is as the
leadership to really move forward maybe some new innovative ideas. Clearly, we have been
forced into it by virtue of not being able to be together, number one.
Number two, now the CDC has implemented a timeline like 15 minutes. And so it even changes
that dynamic even more. Because we were originally thinking about for the incoming Board
members, to have them in the atrium space six feet apart to be sworn in at once. But I don't know
that we can do that now with this new implementation of the 15-minute piece from the CDC.
So I do think we have a lot to think about. And Ms. McManus, thank you for sharing all of those
pieces so that we can think about it. And if we could email you directly maybe some ideas. I like
the idea of opening up the RFP across the country. I would like to really focus on DBEs and
SBEs for sure to make sure that we're supporting small businesses and it would be nice to
support someone within our community.
And then I think the party stuff, the outgoing and incoming Board members, I thought last night
was a great atmosphere. And then I couldn't help but think of other things like what the Emmys
did this year. I think it was the Grammys or the Emmys, where they actually presented people in
hazmat suits their stuff. I think we can be really creative here. And we're going to have to be. But
we're also going to have to be very conscious of the fact of our financial status. So I think this is
our time to really be creative and to work together and think outside of the box.
And then in terms of the meetings for the Board Senior Leadership Team, I had said to Ms.
McManus, my preference would be to give away a day, like maybe do a morning session and
then break for lunch on our own, and then come back and finish up in the afternoon, rather than
doing two mornings, because then that takes up your whole weekend. We do a Friday and
Saturday. I worry about those who have full-time jobs and may not be able to do-- that might be

more difficult for them. Because traditionally we've done it on a Saturday all day. So I'm kind of
stuck there. But I want to give it some more thought.
Is there any other comments, questions, suggestions from anybody?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to echo General Manager
Ballard's comments. I have always wondered, quite honestly, why we had the meeting in
February and March of a year setting goals for the following year. There is so much spread. And
the argument that was presented to me was, well, we need this for budget purposes. And I
absolutely agree with that and understand.
But I would think that doing it in June, or possibly even July, would still facilitate the budget
process, and particularly where we have new Directors coming on board, give them at least five
or six months to understand what's going on. We've got a number of new Director-- no matter
what happens with incumbents running for re-election, we have a number of new Directors
coming on board. And I think it does serve that purpose.
So respecting the fact that a lot of what we do is for budget purposes and that the budget is an
ongoing, continuing process but one that does not culminate until December, it seems to me that
we could even consider pushing the retreats back a few months to give us an opportunity for
onboarding with the new people and a better sense of understanding what we're looking at for
2021. Because the retreat is not to say, OK, how are we going to retool 2020? We did that last
year, yes. But that's not really the purpose. The purpose is to look forward. So I would suggest
we consider that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. The one question I have, though, is
because of the way the bylaws are written and that we have to have it done by first quarter really
puts a timeline on that. Would we have to change the bylaws to accommodate that? And if so,
what would the timeline on that be. Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we would have to look at that. And what I would see is we could
make that change in the bylaws in the Board meeting in December, bring it forward in the
December cycle, and just bring forward that single item as a change in the bylaws.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, what do you guys think? First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just need to think a little bit about how that
would impact the 120-day plan and how we look at Debra. And it may in fact be a two-pronged
approach, having two retreats, one in the first quarter, and we could accomplish what we want to
do with Debra. And then for budgetary purposes do, as Director Tisdale suggested, another
Board retreat in June that really focused on the goal setting with regard to the budget. Just a
thought.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do I have my hand raised still?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I'm [AUDIO OUT] and ask what you guys think about this,
though.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I don't know. I like the idea. I like Doug's idea. Whether I want to
have two retreats, I'm not as excited about that, honestly, especially if we had one with the SLT
in there too. But I see the reason for it. I don't know.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK
LYNN GUISSINGER: I might support that idea of postponing it.
PEGGY CATLIN: One correction. I wasn't suggesting that we have two first quarter retreats,
just one with the Board with regard to Debra's 120-day plan and her evaluation. And only move
the other one to June, which would be Board and then Board-SLT. That would [INTERPOSING
VOICES].
LYNN GUISSINGER: [INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. OK. Let's see. Secretary Buzek, your thoughts?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I mean, if we do something after the first of the
year for Debra, we're halfway through her, or at the earliest, halfway through her 120-day
evaluation period. So I don't know how you accommodate that.
I wouldn't mind exploring more this idea of pushing back our retreat. Because I recall when I
came on last year, in 2019, and having to go right into a retreat, the thing I thought I wanted to
accomplish were one way, but six months later I realized it was so much worse. No, I realized
that things change, you know, and your ideas change and what you think you might want to
accomplish changes. So I can see that, especially in light of every couple [AUDIO OUT], we're
getting new people on board. So that could be helpful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. First Vice Chair Catlin, your hand is still up. Or-- Oh, OK.
Second Vice Chair Cook, what do you think?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I think there's some merit in postponing the portion or the decision
making of the retreat that feeds into the budget. And it sounds like, though, Debra's counting on
something in the February, early February timeframe in order to complete her goals and so forth
for her evaluation process. So it seems like we have to have something there.

It really did, as Doug said, it seemed like a disconnect that we would be looking at the goals for
the year following, almost 18 months or 20 months away. And given all that's changing and has
changed, I like the idea of putting that later.
And then finally, I think it would be worth before we go too far down any one path, to get
Debra's thoughts. She has an MPA and I'm placing a lot of stock in that. I think part of that
curriculum is thinking about governance and the development of goals and process and things
like that. So I think it would be good to get her input into this whole set of questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to remind folks that contractually we have 120 days to come up
with evaluation criteria. We're not going to be evaluating after 120 days. We're just going to
mutually decide on those criteria. So I think that we can still do that, and then we will evaluate
Debra after the year. But it's really just written in the contract. That was [AUDIO OUT] wanted
to make that point.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what I'd like to do? I think the good news is that we
wouldn't have to bring forward a bylaw change to the Board until December, that we can maybe
think about this a little bit. Because it is very interesting. And I kind of agree of pushing it back.
Because as a new Board member, you don't know what to-- I mean, you've campaigned on all
this stuff, but to actually campaign and then to be dealt with the reality of what you have to
govern is very different. And so it might be advantageous to move it back to June so people will
have their feet on the ground a little bit and before they're making really big decisions that will
affect this agency. I think that makes sense.
But Ms. McManus, if we could maybe think about it and then come back to you as we move
forward, I think that would be really helpful.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm here to push forward whatever you choose.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Yeah.
The other thing that I will just add is we're also looking at ad hoc committee on committee
structure that would come to the Board in December as well. And so that might actually dovetail
quite nicely as we move forward. So just as a point of reference, I think that this is a good
discussion to have right now.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair, that committee has its first meeting later this afternoon. So
we're on our way.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes we are. OK. Mr. Ballard, do you have anything else?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry, Director Menten. Go ahead

NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I did want to comment on the facilitator. And just looking back,
just for reference, it looks like in 2018 we got proposals from, I think it was two or three
companies at that point in time. And we ended up choosing Spero and Company. And for their
portion, that may have been one year where they only did the one retreat, I can't recall. But at
that point, we charged, for that year it was $8,500 charge for Spero and Company. I do
remember that we reduced it down with negotiating that they didn't have to produce the notes
from the meeting, which, looking back at what they've done over the years with the notes, I don't
know how many thousands of dollars that would be worth.
And so I bring this all up because of the change of potentially being a remote virtual meeting.
With the 2019 expenditure with Spero and Company, it was just about $20,000. And I think they
did owe for sure that year. This last year it jumped all the way up to $28,000. And so I'm glad to
hear that we might have more responses to the RFP and hope that it would be a potential
reduction.
This is why, when I was back on the Executive Committee in 2018, felt really strongly on
negotiating more with them on cost reduction. And then considering our budget situation, I don't
think it's out of line. So I'm just kind of bringing this to the attention as that was part of this
discussion. And as we're nearing a $30,000 bill from this year, hopefully that can be reduced
with less remote access.
So that's all I wanted to comment, although I will speak with-- I don't have the budgetary right in
front of me, but I would think that Heather might be a little bit hesitant on getting into a June and
July discussion about what are the priorities. Because by then, we're already jumping into
budgets. So for them to digest, put a action plan together-- I won't be on the Board. But maybe in
April and May might be a compromise. Because I certainly understand getting on the Board and
you're just digesting a lot of information. But June and July seems a little bit late. I'd be
interested to hear what Heather's point of view would be. So that's it. OK. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Ballard, do you have anything for us?
PAUL BALLARD: No, ma'am. I think you're doing just fine. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other matters to come before the Executive
Committee? Once, twice. OK. Well, with that, I will say thank you very, very much. This has
been a great conversation. I really would like for you to think about that, what we've talked about
changing the timeline for this stuff. I think that this is our time to really make some changes as
we get a new General Manager and we're moving forward at looking at our committee structures.
We have the opportunity to really delve into this and figure out if we need to move forward a
little bit differently. So thank you.
I will now call for the adjournment of this committee.
JOHN MCKAY: Chair? Chair, this is John McKay. I just wanted to chime in very quickly here.
I'll keep it brief. Barbara wanted to let the Executive Committee know that we've sort of
identified a virtual meeting platform going forward. And we are going to be using Teams, the

format that you're familiar with, the one you're using right now, is part of it. We will also be
looking into streaming our meetings. There is a problem with the capacity of Teams in that we
can only have 300 people in one of these sessions. And so we are looking at streaming the
meetings so that anybody from the public can follow along on the website without having to
actually be in the room. There will still be a call-in option. So those folks will be in the meeting
room itself. But we'll be streaming and then we'll also use Broadnet for the public participation
portion during the meetings. But just want to give you a heads up that we will be rolling out this
video conferencing format, probably starting in December if all the IT lines up correctly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. McKay. I have to tell you, the whole Broadnet
and streaming live has been a big goal of the Board for as many years as I can recall. So that's
good news. Thank you.
Anything else? OK. So I'd like to call for an adjournment. Do I have a motion to adjourn?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Guissinger and Catlin. Any opposition? Seeing none, we
are adjourned at 12:12. Have a good day, you guys.

