December 10, 2019
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
KEN MIHALIK: several, a total of four recommended actions and a handful of updates. We will
lead off with the 2020 audit plan. It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approves the attached annual audit plan for 2020.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals for 2020. Core goal
number one, successful delivery of transit services, and core goal number three of strong financial
management.
Is there a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
JEFF WALKER: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams and Walker. You've have the plan. Is it, Ann
Marie, do you want to give me introduction to this, or is this just, if anybody has any questions for
you on next year's audit plan?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: We really want to just move with questions. Anne Marie IsaacHeslop here, Manager of Internal and IT Audit. And yeah, we would really want to do any
questions on the audit plan.
KEN MIHALIK: You've seen the itemized plan and the description of those various audits. Any
questions for Ms. Isaac-Heslop? Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. What's the status of your staff right now? Are you fully staffed?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I actually, we've got one auditor who came to us in May, and
we've got a senior auditor who came in July. So they're getting off to a pretty good start.
BOB BROOM: And now you're fully staffed?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yes.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Dr. Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I am wondering, is there a process for these audits,
for any of your audits, like a mandatory review, so that you can tell, and then we can tell and

everybody can tell, that whatever recommendations and/or agreements were made based on the
audit and that's part of the audit are actually being complied with or not?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: We don't have any mandatory process. However, we do followup audits. And through the follow up audits, we do them if we have the time. So between
September last year and May this year, I was in audit on my own. So normally we would do followup audits to basically check to ensure that the recommendations were completed as agreed by
management.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I guess, I don't know if this is the right place to say it. But to me, I think to
make audits more powerful, as I've thought about it, I've thought that there needs to be some kind
of-- or, I would hope there would be, some kind of mandatory process, that every audit has a review
to see the compliance, and that that review is then brought to the Board, too.
And as far as I'm concerned, to me it would be OK to have less initial audits if we could make sure
we had the follow-up. I think it becomes more effective.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I agree. And we are beginning to develop-- now that I have
people working with me, and I have the time, and I have other minds to help me, we're beginning
to develop a spreadsheet with outstanding recommendations so that we can get to the point of
following up on all of them, and basically being able to identify where we are on every single one
of them.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Well, I guess, and I think that's good. But I really do personally feel that for
me that's a priority, more than the number of initial audits that you have-- which all sounds
interesting and worthwhile. But those that follow-up process is the only way that we're going to
see real accountability to the results of the audits and thus make them have real punch.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Absolutely.
JUDY LUBOW: So I'm not sure how to go about making sure that happens. But that would be my
recommendation personally.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, Director Lubow, we're going to touch on that here a little bit in the audit
update. And then-- well, and then even early next year. So thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you Chair Mihalik. Just a couple of things, Ann Marie. It's been my
experience with auditing that you start out with a risk assessment to determine the priorities of the
audits. And I just didn't know if you have a list of 12 audits here, which is pretty substantial, and
those are just non-IT audits. And I was wondering if those had been prioritized using a risk
assessment.
But then you have one of the audits being a risk assessment. And I just was wondering if you could
explain what that entails a little bit more.
I read the plan, but I'm just asking for a little more detail. Thank you.

ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: OK. So when I came here in 2013, there was no risk assessment
so we did one probably about three years ago. We did it organization wide. Now, if audit had to
do a risk assessment, a detailed risk assessment, for RTD it would take considerable time, which
it would take the entire audit staff. And it would probably take us a good six months to do.
We actually had some help from different departments, including Communication and some Asset
Management. And we were able to pull together information to do a risk assessment, not in as
much detail, but in pretty good detail. And we are planning to use those resources again so that we
can actually do a risk assessment.
Now, what this will do is it will identify all of the risks in every single department, and then it will
basically use the factors associated with them to basically give them sort of a ranking. We would
then be able to use that to determine the areas that we would audit then.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might follow up, that is actually a process that I was referring to, not that
your staff of three would do the risk assessment. Because you need it from all the different
departments. And I was just wondering what that process would entail. So thank you very much.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: You're welcome.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Just to follow up, the external auditor reviews your internal audits. And I believe
they remark in their management letter whether there's been recommendations that have not been
followed. Is that correct or not?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: No, that is not correct. The external auditors do not use the audits
that we do normally within the external audit. They do review some of the audit work that we do.
But the difference in what we do and what they do in terms of the level of internal controls that we
look at and what they look at, it is so completely different. So no, they do not go down in the weeds
to look at the recommendations that we have made.
BOB BROOM: But when they look at internal controls, isn't that one area they would look at, to
determine whether the RTD has adequate internal controls?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: They do look at internal controls. And I have experience, because
I've been an external auditor myself. But we do not look at-- as an external auditor you do not look
at the internal controls, not at the depth that we look at it as internal auditors.
So they do encounter it in looking at their debtors and the creditors, et cetera. And they will
comment on it. But it's not the same level that we are looking at.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you very much.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I know that all the Board Directors have received three
reports, I'm sorry, two of the three, reports from the past that I'm going to reference, because that
was the only way that some of them would have gotten it, since they're brand-new Board Directors.
And so what I'm going to be asking about is, two of the audits are in your follow-up here in your
plan for 2020. And the three audits I'm addressing are from 2015 and 2016. So one of them was
titled "Salary increases," which was 15-01-02, the "Salary position changes," which is 15-01-01,
and the third, which I did not have a digital copy but I did have hard copy, is "Overtime audit"
from 2016.
And I note that two of these are in your follow-up. And I think there are some loose ends in there,
but I want to kind of get this out right now, because we only see you quarterly, to understand better.
In two of those recommendations that you found in these audits, your conclusion was
recommending that we have a complete classification study for all salaried positions.
I think we found out recently that that's not been initiated. Is that your understanding, that we have
not initiated a job classification study per your recommendations?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Not to my knowledge, no.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then it also references in these reports that in 2011 the agency did
a job classification-- let me get the actual wording here-- compensation plan review. So that would
be a little more expansive than just classification. Compensation review includes benefits and other
things outside of that job title.
So we've been told in these reports, in the management response, that a study was done in 2011.
Does the audit department have those records?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: No. I don't remember getting any records for a compensation
study that was done in 2011, ever.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And I think that would be helpful for moving forward?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can I address that? So I just want to clarify, there is a big difference
between a classification study and a compensation study. So the classification study is looking at
job descriptions and looking at the actual work that someone does, and saying, are you properly
classified?
We did start that process internally. As we said in audit, we would do it internally. We did not
have the funding at the time to do externally. And we have done a series of classifications review
and are in the process of doing a lot more.
A compensation study looks at, what is the compensation, after you have those classifications,
what is the compensation? Which may or may not include benefits, right? So sometimes you just

do a compensation study, which is just looking at salaries. And sometimes you look at salaries and
benefits.
As I think I've mentioned in previous meetings here, we have a scope of work we've been working
on for a compensation study. We are going to include them looking at our classifications also. That
gets more expensive the things you add on. And then based on that feedback that the Board has
given us on benefits, we've added benefits to that scope of work just recently.
So I just want to clarify, because there is a difference. And we have been working on the
classifications since 2015. It's a very, very labor-intensive process. And so we've made it through
four classifications, I believe, so far. And we're currently working on senior managers and manager
classifications.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And as it relates to the 2011, I've got your email on that, and we're
looking for it. I don't know, I was not here in 2011, so I don't have access. But HR was looking
through their files to see if they could find it.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, that's part of the problem is, I wasn't here in 2011, either. So I mean,
no, I say that seriously, that I don't have the record. And that's what it does state in this, is
management response an independent organization review of the compensation plan in 2011
provided recommendations that were implemented, and the plan was endorsed and approved by
the SLT and the GM CEO.
So I think it's a really important document once you find it. And I would say, when I look at the
questions that may or may not have been resolved out of these 2015 audits and these follow-up
again, I'm trying to understand 2020 plan, that when we have the overtime and the HR policies and
the procedures, these things all are woven together in my mind.
So that's why I ask whether your department had it. So thank you that you're trying to get that
through HR.
And this is important to me. I think there are these loose ends. I see that you have two of these as
follow-ups, so I'm happy to see that. I don't know that-- when you say you have follow-up to the
overtime, and the extra shift, and the HR policies, and the procedures, I don't know that I am clear
that we had a complete follow-up and loose ends all tied up on the salary increases and what we
call the salary position changes.
So if those got all closed out, if you could send me that document on what your follow-up findings
were, that would be great. Otherwise, I'm wondering if they should be also included in a bullet for
item 12.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: So under HR policies and procedures, I basically included
following up on all of the HR audits. And so we would sort of get information on all of them. We

haven't closed out any of them, because we still have outstanding recommendations on them. So
we will not close it out with outstanding recommendations.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. One last question, or comment, and that is, in the past when I headed
up the Finance Committee, I remember you brought to our attention your desire to have the audit
reports for RTD posted on our website. I know that we were incomplete, I'm going to speak for
myself, in agreement to have that done. As far as I know, they are not posted on the website. Is
that correct?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yes, that's absolutely correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Just note that, when we post audit reports on the website, we
would probably not post the entire report. And the reason being, when these reports are printed,
they're not considered authentic copies.
So if we put the information on the website, we would put a summarized vision of the report, so
that if anyone is really interested, they can do a call or request and get the report.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't think the public is concerned about a certified copy. That's who it's
for. I'm speaking as a person who has submitted more than my share of public open records.
[LAUGHTER]
I would prefer to have all of it there. So I don't know. Does that mean you're talking about
something shorter than one of these?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yeah. We would actually put a summarized vision of the report
online.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I would want the whole, I would want this.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: It's more like an executive summary.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would want this.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Rather than the whole thing.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would want this.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Well, I think we'd probably have to have some sort of discussion
on it regarding space, the amount of space that it takes up, how many audits we put, how many
years of audits we put online. That's a lot of information.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, this is minor.

[INAUDIBLE]
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't mean to fight you, Ann Marie.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Oh, it's OK. It's all right.
NATALIE MENTEN: But this is really, really minor.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yeah, I know.
NATALIE MENTEN: And I would like to see the Board have that as part of the action plan to,
let's say, get the last five years of audits. We're barely talking maybe a megabyte, maybe two
megabytes, really small in the world of computer stuff.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Just, that we retain audits for three years. Only the open ones
would be retained, until such time as the information is closed down. But normally, our retention
period is only three years.
So we could probably do three years but not necessarily go back five.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would go with two, or three if I-KEN MIHALIK: Well, Director, if I could just jump in, we're going to do an audit update later on.
And then some of that is going to be potential structural changes and things like that. And we're
looking to do some of that stuff in the first quarter of next year.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
KEN MIHALIK: Any other questions?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, just been waiting about four years for this conversation. So I was-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[LAUGHTER]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank, Ann Marie.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. You know, I have decided to, well, I guess with recommended action
we're supposed to vote on, not to vote on the audit plans, to vote against it. Not as a criticism, but
because I am so concerned about past audits and that we don't have a list of all the things that were

done and not done on all the audits. That, to me, knowing that might really come up with a different
list of, gee, this thing we didn't get, we really need it.
So it's just something I would suggest for the future. And I will definitely be talking in the update
when we talk about some potential structural changes, to make the audit department more
powerful. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thanks, Director Lubow. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry. Quickly on the point, it's kind of outside the scope of what we're talking
about, but, to the points that Director Menten brought up relative to the salary and compensation
and classification studies, to the extent that some of these recommendations relate, I'm hoping we
can work later on scope of work for any consulting that we do, to make sure that it's, to the extent
it can, incorporating the recommendations that have been brought forward from the audit process
previously. So just inserting that as a request.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Chair. I appreciate it. I had a very similar ask. But I
wanted to ask Heather. You said that you had gotten through four classifications? Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, I believe it's four.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Four?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we've looked at admins, and those are now reclassified as business
support. We've looked at budget analysts, we've looked at business analysts, and engineers.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We're trying to consolidate for 800 employees. We have over 700 titles.
And so what we're trying to do is consulting-- just saying why we need one. So we've been trying
to do that. So just in the budget analysts alone, we were able to go from, I think it was 37 titles, to
four, Budget Analyst 1, 2, 3, and 4. And same thing with engineers, Engineers 1, 2, 3, and 4.
So they're trying to go into a industry standard, which is very common. And it also makes it a lot
easier, when we do compensation studies, to be able to compare that to industry standards. And
it's also better for the employee when they don't have one-off titles that we can't find anywhere
else, even in another transit agency.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. And I have one more follow-up. You would complete the
classifications in the event that, sorry, I put my head down. I'm sorry.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I apologize.

SHONTEL LEWIS: No, you're fine. You were just fine, Heather. I should have said I was talking
to you. Complete the classifications. And then you would look at compensation to make sure that
it aligns with or not?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So one of the reasons, in addition to the audit, calling for it, we
started that process about three years ago was because we knew at some point we were going to
go out for a compensation study. And like I said, it makes it very expensive and very laborious if
you have 700 titles that a compensation consultant has to look through to try to compare that to
the industry standards.
So we were trying to consoli, I'm sorry. I'm starting to lose my voice. I'm sure a lot of people will
be upset about that. So we were trying to look at how to consolidate those and also bring those in
line with industry standards, so that when we do hire the compensation, we have not been able to
move at the rate that we wanted to, just because of all the other workload we have. So we're
considering putting that into the scope of work.
So they would complete that as a phase 1, the classification review. And then once that's done,
they can do the compensation study.
SHONTEL LEWIS: "They" as an independent contractor?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. The consultant, whoever we end up hiring. And we're going to
be doing an RFP for that process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you Ms. McKillop. 700, wow. Some of you thought the fare structure was
complicated.
[LAUGHTER]
So let's move on to vote on our 2020 audit plan. Mover was Director Williams, and second was
Director Walker. We have 14 yeses and one no. This passes. The no is Director Lubow.
We will move on to the, you've all seen this before. This is the adoption of the pension plan
contribution.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: In the updates.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: No, it's something we've been talking about the last couple days. So I'll read this.
It's going to be familiar to you. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2020 contribution of $6,100,000 to RTD's

salaried employees Defined Benefit pension trust, or the DB plan, which pays a specified monthly
benefit at retirement. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2020
contribution of 9% of each participant's eligible compensation to the salaried employees Defined
Contribution plan, the DC plan, which contributes a specified amount to the plan for each year of
employment.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- task goal number two,
addressing service and human capital. Is there a motion?
BOB BROOM: So moved. Thank you, Directors Broom and Tisdale. Ms. McKillop, is there any
additional information that you haven't already provided to us?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. I think I just want to say again that, as I mentioned last time, we
haven't made any changes to the document, because it was tabled from the last several meetings.
And we have balanced the budget, which you'll see next. And we also presented on the 21st,
assuming that the 9% was in there.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you for that. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. One question. Or first question. I've spent I don't know how
much time trying to find comparables for public pension and the employee's contribution. And we
know what's present on the represented side they do contribute. It has been an extreme struggle.
I've talked to Bureau of Labor Statistics, Colorado Department of Labor. They've tossed me around
back and forth. I get no return phone calls from some. I get documents that doesn't contain the
information. Very frustrating.
But I have not been able to find where somebody else is getting, another agency has a 9%, let's
say, contribution, and there's zero contributed by the employee. Do you have an example? PERA,
we know the employee contributes. Do you know of something?
Because I'm at my wit's end with trying to find comparables.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. So I have not done that research beyond, I
was asked to provide the information on PERA at the last one. That would be some of the things
that would, that would be some of the questions that we would conduct when we added the benefits
on to the scope of work, to look at comparable agencies for the benefit package, which would
include the pension slash, in this case we're discussing a non-pension item or a defined contribution
plan.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So with that in mind, I would to make a motion to amend, to change
this contribution from the agency or employer or taxpayers, for the year 2020 from 9% to 7%.
As I will just note once more, this is just for one year.
KEN MIHALIK: And this is for the DC plan, the Defined Contribution plan.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, correct.
KEN MIHALIK: There is a motion on the floor. Is there a second?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I second it so we could have a discussion, which I hope we have now.
KEN MIHALIK: Understood. OK. I notice that there's some speakers in the queue. If you're not
speaking on this motion to amend, would you mind dropping out of queue and-- OK. Director
Broom.
BOB BROOM: My comment is going to apply either way. But I inquired about, what does the
$6,100,000 relate to in terms of percentage that are being paid to the older employees that are in
the defined benefit plan. And it turns out to be 22%. So you've got one classification of employees
that were contributing 22% and another one 9%. I certainly wouldn't want to entertain reducing
the 9% to 7%. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that information. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I am conflicted on this. I think that at this point in time that this
group needs to support our employees. And we have had discussion that the agency is, quote, not
my quote, somebody else's quote, "in crisis." We have a lot of stuff going on. I think that it is not
in the interest of morale that we endanger our employees' benefits in any way.
That said, I also believe that in most of the cases, and I've done some homework on it, too, that
there should be an employee contribution to match. I have a job, and my employer matches what
I contribute, or vice versa, whoever comes first.
So I think that is worth discussion. But predominantly, I do not disagree with your principle,
Director Menten, but I think that now is not the time to do it. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. To both Director Broom and Director Williams' points, I
think that when we are contributing as an agency over 20% to both the representative side and the
salary side for defined benefit, that to pick on one segment of the employee base, just because we
can, I don't think we necessarily should at this time.
That said, I'm looking forward to the total compensation survey to see if there is something that
we can do across the board to maybe consider some employee contribution, and maybe get the
agency more in alignment with some other industry standards. So I just wanted to say that, at this
point I think the timing is bad for a reduction for employee morale and everything.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Thank you, Chair. Similarly, I'm going to vote against the amendment. I
wish we could, just noting that the 7% to 9% was arranged that the Board, when it adopted this,
specifically allowed for adjustment during times like this, when we have budget issues. So, you
know, I could easily see doing that, just to build in some added cushion in a time when there is a
lot of uncertainty about the economy and so forth.
But I think part of what my concern, and some of what I'm hearing, has to do with the structure of
the pensions generally. And I also think that we have an opportunity with the total compensation
studies to come, to identify things like whether or not it would be appropriate to include a match
requirement and incentive on the part of the employees. And there may be other pieces as well.
So I'll vote against it. But I recognize the-- I just wanted to say, I respect what you're bringing
forward in that sense but will go ahead and vote against it on this occasion.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. I'll recognize the Chairman.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just want to ratify and reaffirm the
comments of Director Broom, and Director Williams, and Director Catlin. And I join in part in
dissenting part from Director Cook's comments. But I think it's a bad time, and it's a bad discussion.
I think we need to say this. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Whitmore, you're next.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Heather, if I recall correctly in regards to another
component of the budget dealing with benefits and compensation, did we not take our 3% merit
pool down to 1.5% for next year's budget?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. Yes, that is correct.
TROY WHITMORE: That is all.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just as a follow-up, I will be looking very much forward to any Board
Director who is willing to make the cuts that they just spoke about tonight. Otherwise, what you
will continue to have is-- unless you're addressing all three at once-- you will continue to have the
same problem.
Department A is getting this, but we're only talking about B. But then we've got C. I will take a
guess that it's going to be a long time before a Board Director has the guts to do this. Thank you.
Prove me wrong.
[LAUGHTER]

KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. We will move on the vote to amend. And that, again, is to reduce
the recommended 9% to the lower of the range at 7% for 2020. Director Menten was the mover.
Director Folska was the second. Waiting on you, Director Menten.
The motion does not pass. There were three yeses-- Director Lewis, Director Menten, and myself- everyone else voting no. So we'll go back to the main motion-TISDALE: Call the question.
KEN MIHALIK: Any objection?
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: We will move to vote.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can we discuss it?
KEN MIHALIK: No, we have discussed. OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: Director Broom, you were the mover. Director Tisdale, you were the second.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: This is the main motion. And the same as before, except the opposite-- three
no's, Director Lewis, Director Menten, and myself. And the motion does pass after so many
months.
Thank you, Ms. McKillop, for your patience through that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I just wanted to say thank you. I know this was a very, very
difficult discussion and just a difficult issue. And it's well noted. And we will continue to work.
Like I said, we just amended the scope of work to include benefits. And so hopefully we'll have a
very comprehensive look at that in about this time next year. Well, hopefully before this time next
year-- like October of next year-- hopefully to bring to you some additional information that will
help you guide the decision in the future. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And that was going to be a good segue way into-MICHAEL MEADER: Chair Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.

MICHAEL MEADER: I'm sorry. Can I just make one comment? I just wanted to-- this is Mike
Meader-- thank you for that. This sends a very powerful message to our employees right now. So
thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Well noted. And like I said, that's a segue into our next item, the 2020
recommended budget. All right. Well, I'll get started. And so it is recommended by the Financial
Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of Directors adopt resolution number blank
series of 2019 for the adoption of the 2020 budget, resolution number blank series of 2019, for the
2020 budget appropriation, and resolution number blank series of 2019 for the appropriation of
2020, previously appropriated capital.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals-- core goal number
three, a strong financial management, and task goal number one, fiscal sustainability. Is there a
motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
KEN MIHALIK: And a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams and Director Whitmore. This is the culmination
of the last year. Anything else we need to know in December?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair, the only thing I would point out is, the numbers haven't
changed since the November 21 presentation, but the comparison does change. So when we
compared the information for you at the November 21, it was comparing this September
information that we had presented to you.
And so if you look at the numbers and the change, they look slightly different, because now we're
comparing it against what was published to the public. And so that's a requirement that we have to
do.
So instead of doing the September to what we presented last month, we're now doing what was
sent to the public in October to now where we are. So that's the only difference if you notice there's
a few changes.
That was the first thing I caught. When I talked to Jeanette, I'm like, Jeanette, the numbers don't
match. And she was like, Heather, you're comparing the wrong thing. So I just want to say, that's
what the difference is.
Otherwise, we would be glad to take any questions that you have.
JUDY LUBOW: And could I add to that? The major changes to operating expenses from the posted
budget include the inclusion of the expense projects approved in the mid-term financial plan. We

are also breaking out the expense project carry forward. We are also showing interest expense and
further reductions to the budget. So those are the major changes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. With that, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to confirm that the 2020 budget contains funds to
fully staff rail and bus operators and that the reduction in service is not a function of we don't have
the money, it's a function of we don't have the manpower or lady-power.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. Yes. We did not take any operating
reductions to either light rail or bus. The only reductions that were taken is that our GM had asked
that we reduce travel, out-of-state travel, and conferences. So there were reductions to out-of-state
travel and conferences in the bus and rail lines.
But otherwise, all of the operational costs for the operators, mechanics, et cetera remain the same.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Any additional comments or questions? I don't see any. We will
move to vote on this. Director Williams, you were the mover. Director Whitmore, you were the
second.
And with that, it passes, with two no's, Director Lewis and Director Menten. Thank you very much.
And we'll move onto our fourth recommended action for tonight. It is recommended by the
Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approve free rides on
RTD for active duty members of the United States Military for the period of January 1, 2020
through December 31, 2020.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
KEN MIHALIK: And this recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals- core goal number five-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: --effective communications and community outreach. Director Folska, you're
still the mover?
KEN MIHALIK: And Guissinger is the second.
[INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. Director Folska, you can start us off.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I just wanted to say this for the record and most
our new Board members. And the reason that this comes up every year at this time of year is
because we want to remember the contributions that our service members have made, and the
sacrifices that they have made and their families, to our country and to the RTD. So that's why it
comes up every year. And it's not just there and we forget about it. Because we don't want to forget
them. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I'd like to point out that, in addition to this, that we allow the
Denver Police Force to ride for free on our services. And that's also because of the things that they
do for us. And I think that sometimes the Board of Directors rides for free on our services because
of the work that we do.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair, can I just clarify?
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It's not just Denver. It's all first responders. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And as in previous years, I'll be voting no, just because I don't know
that we should be making value judgments on particular employers and professions, and who is
more important than someone else. So we'll move to vote, unless anybody has anything else.
All right. Director Menten, real quick.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. But I've got to ask, the requirements under equal laws, the title
requirements that we need to comply with, is this never a part of-- it's just so minor what's the
difference between this, and we've got to have the PASS program evaluated, we've got to have
every other kind of action evaluated. How come-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Someone should try-- this is Heather.
NATALIE MENTEN: Curious.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the dollar amount associated with this is extremely low. And we can't
even quantify it. So it's so little, and it's just been a practice that the Board's done, it is so minor it
does not have an impact on Title VI.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It is something we discussed in the past working group and decided this
was not an issue we would address through that process.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thanks.

KEN MIHALIK: OK. We will move to vote. Again, Director Folska, you were the mover, Director
Guissinger the second.
And this passes 14 to 1, me being the only no vote. And we got through our recommended actions
for 2019. Yeah. We'll see you again soon, Ms. McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, I'll be back. I'm not leaving.
KEN MIHALIK: Our first update for tonight is one that Director Cook reminded me of earlier.
And it's our audit charter update. And you may have seen an email from Ann Marie earlier today.
If you didn't, you do have one. And it's meant to kind of set the stage for-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: Well, not only this discussion, but kind of what we want to look into do early
next year as it relates to the charter structure and some things like that.
So without getting into all this detail on the comparison of the different charters, one is the audit
charter, and one is the model charter, and we don't want to really compare them tonight. But they
are available for you to review. And again, we would revisit this early next year to potentially
modify the existing charter.
Any generic questions at this time? Yes, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I don't know how my concerns fit in in terms of comparing these two
charters. But I had already expressed some thinking that I have been doing about making the audits
just more powerful in creating effective accountability. I think it benefits everybody to have that.
And so I would love the idea of some requirement that every audit has to have a follow-up, so that
you can see what recommendations are being complied with and what aren't, so that there is a
process that it has to happen.
And as far as I'm concerned, I'd be quite content to have less original audits if those audits would
include a mandatory follow-up.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: What I would say regarding that is that, we have a model charter,
and it basically contains the least amount of information that should be in it. But it doesn't mean
that we can't add something like that-- that every audit should be followed up. Or we can add a
process for it. Which could become part of the discussion eventually.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And while we're at it, the same thing about the idea of, I do think that
it would be great to have a risk assessment. And I don't know if it's a term of art. But it's just some
way to say, OK, we're going to start afresh, and we're going to see what are the areas that could
create the most damage to the agency, and use that awareness to dictate what our audits are going
to be, as well as looking at prior audits and seeing what hasn't been complied with.

I think we could turn things around and then start afresh. That would be my hope.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: OK. Well, what I would say with regard to follow-up audits is,
when I came here in 2013, there were two of us, and there were no follow-up audits. And we have
increased them considerably since that time. And we will continue to follow-up on audits, because
part of the audit process depends on us doing the audits. The other part depends on management
doing the recommendations.
So it's a group. It's not just audit. You know, I know some people think, OK, there's cyber security,
and well, we have a person out there, and that business will deal with it. It really isn't. It's a group
thing, basically.
And audit just doesn't depend on us. It's us and management and the Board, all together responsible
for that audit.
JUDY LUBOW: Right. And what I would love to see is just more of a procedure built in, so that
we make sure it's as effective as possible.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: OK.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director-- I'm going to just-- that's kind of what we're setting the stage for early
next year, if you want to start formulating some of those concepts to discuss it, maybe a workshop
early next year.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Cook, you're next.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, just to recap, that's the only thing we're bringing to the Board tonight,
or to the Committee, is, shall we go ahead and schedule a session where we can talk about some
of these items? And just to recap what gave rise to it, the 2010 state audit had identified in its
section on governance a specific set of recommendations about the internal audit function that it
thought would be healthier.
And they in particular said that we ought to improve the independence of that function. And they
had several specifics that they cited as evidence of that independence. And for example, they
included that this committee-- the Finance Committee or a separately established committee-would review and approve the performance, or maybe even conduct the performance evaluation
for the Internal Auditor, that we would review and set the compensation for that individual through
the year, and that there would be a stronger reporting relationship.
So what Ann Marie has done is identified areas in our charter that do not provide for that where
they are provided for in the model charter, and just said, shall we bring this forward and talk about
it in further detail? So that's what I'd suggest, yeah. Thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for elaborating on that. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I would like to see us have a policy that is similar to the Legislative
Audit Committee, and that when the Legislative Audit Committee and the state auditor goes
forward and conducts an audit, and then there is the follow through, it is, for the most part, not an
open file and is completed, it's pretty much tied up. There may be some things that take time to get
finalized, but the audit's for the most part completed. And Legislative Audit Committee then turns
around and says, we will release this for the public.
So I would like to see that as a similar process here. I truly feel, when I see it in here, that the Chief
Audit Executive will report to the Board and to senior management, the word "public" should be
also in there, too. Because that's where we all report, too. And that's where publicizing an audit on
the website is our responsibility and our jobs. And I'd like to see it as part of the policy.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: OK. As far as audit reporting to the public, I would say that we
as an internal function will report internally within the organization normally. And an audit only
becomes public information on completion of audits.
So for example, when we have a draft report, it is not public information. So really, we do not, as
an internal audit function, we would not normally report to the public. Although our reports would
be available to the public when they become finalized.
NATALIE MENTEN: That would be fine. But I also would have to then ask, when I do get one
of these report, it's not presented under an executive session. So to me it's public record, still.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Once our audits are finalized-NATALIE MENTEN: Or confidential record, I meant.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Any report becomes public information. So it could be shared,
and the public can request it, et cetera, once we finalize the report.
NATALIE MENTEN: So for right now, when something is finalized, I would like to have it posted
on the website.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: OK. I will have to do some research with IT as to how we can
get that done.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah. And Director Menten, I think that's one of the, maybe, mechanisms we
can discuss whenever this workshop happens, something like that.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So we already have a page set up on reports and policies. That's
an excellent position to have our audit reports.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Anything else?

NATALIE MENTEN: Not from me.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Mr. Chairman.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Relative to the existing audit, and
contrasting with the proposed audit, I want to make sure first that we do understand-- because if it
ain't broke, I don't think we should fix that. I'm all for looking at things.
But relative to the question of whether we have a risk assessment and a risk-based audit plan, page
51, which is the existing audit plan, says that the Manager of Audit has the responsibility to submit
a risk-based annual audit plan. So I think it's already addressed. There may be other things that are
not. But I think that is.
Secondly, page 52 at the top, the first paragraph, there's some sense that the public or staff may
get from this discussion that we don't have any follow-up on audits. The existing audit plan-- and
I remember it, because Director Lubow was here when we voted on it, Director Menten was here
when we voted on it, Director Folska was here when we voted on it, Director Walker was here
when we voted on it, I was here when we voted on it-- we approved this in December of 2017.
And it says, follow up on an engagement findings and correct-- and Director Williams was here at
that time.
And I wanted to save her for the last, because she, as I recall, was adamant about saying that the
report include, the charter include, follow-up on engagement findings and corrective actions, and
report periodically to senior management and the Board any corrective actions not effectively
implemented.
I think it's there. There may be other things. But I've heard discussion about those two things, and
I find those in the existing charter. And I just want to address that, that they're there.
Now, if they're not being done, that's a separate question. But they're in there. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for reading fine print. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Forgive my ignorance. I am just curious, who is the Chief
Audit Officer?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: That would be me.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's not what your emails say.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: In the profession, there is a title within the profession. And I sit
on a roundtable with 50 Chief Audit Executives in Denver. They are mostly from private
companies-- PWC, et cetera, et cetera.

And so basically, the profession has a title for people who do what I do. Basically, the people with
the knowledge and experience in audit in any organization that other people would turn to.
However, my title here is the Manager of Internal Audit and IT Audit.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much for that. So I do agree with Director Lubow in terms of
the accountability and the corrective action. I just want to make sure I'm understanding this
correctly. There are things that would have been recommended that are actually not happening?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's helpful to know.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: And there's some things that have probably been done or begun,
but, because until September last year we only had myself and one senior auditor, we did not have
time to go back.
In addition, when I came here in 2017, although the Association of Local Government Auditors
said that a team of two to five auditors did five audits a year, RTD had a requirement of 20 audits
per year before I came here. And I actually came to the Board and said, this is not even sensible.
So I mean, there's been a lot of change, and the Board has actually worked with Audit, and
management has worked with Audit, and we have done a lot of changes. And we have even
included a lot more follow-up audits than we ever could have done before. And it can only get
better now that I have two people.
Once they get into the groove, then we can add to the follow-up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just one more question.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, One more follow-up. The email that you sent us earlier today, is that-the wording or the articles within that email-- something that we could include into the discussion
in our workshop and adding that information back into the charter?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Absolutely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's all.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'm a little curious about when a audit becomes final. And you
start out with a draft audit, and then you give that to management, and management responds. At
that point, when you get the response back, is the audit final? Or do you wait until they've
eventually implemented all of the things that they say they're going to implement? Or how does
that work?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: So when we get to the stage of developing the draft audit report,
we will actively sit down with management, and we go through the recommendations. Because
some audit teams come in, and they make really fancy recommendations. And we could actually
do that, but it would be useless, unless it's really something that could be implemented.
So we sit with management, and we talk to them, and we agree on recommendations. Then we
allow management the opportunity to include their responses to the recommendations. So for
example, they could agree, disagree. And then they can tell us, this is the time that we're going to
implement it by.
Once we get the responses back once again we go through the reports and we respond to their
recommendation to their responses. So for example, we will see-- if management comes back and
they said, we'll do it in June next year, then we say, OK, we will have a look at it. And we will
follow up on it if it's necessary.
Then the report is-- once we've completed that process, then we will finalize the reports.
BOB BROOM: So it could be a year or more before you finalize an audit.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: No, because it takes-- there are some audits that I started in
January this year, and I still have the draft report on my desk and just in the process of finalizing
it. It just depends on the detail of the work.
But once we get to the draft process, then it could be a matter of couple weeks before we can get
to the final.
BOB BROOM: But when do you provide that information to the Board of Directors?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: We do it in an update. And my plan is that early in the year-probably in the February meeting-- we will actually come to the Board with an update on all of
2019 audits. Because even though I was in Audit on my own between January and May, we are
still on track to complete every single audit for 2019.
BOB BROOM: You didn't have to waste time on supervision.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Sorry?
BOB BROOM: You didn't have to waste time on supervision.

ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: But I did have to waste time on weekends, and sometimes I did
have to waste time on sleep, either. But we'll get there.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And I think that is it for the audit charter update.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. And Mr. MacLeod is going to update us on October's
monthly financial status.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Doug MacLeod. Heather has been losing her voice as
the night has gone on. You may have noticed. And so she asked me to cover these last two items.
But she joins me here at the table.
So with monthly financial statements for October, in the package we did not receive the sales and
use taxes until Friday, similar to last month. So we will be updating the package tomorrow with
the final October financials, which have those sales and use tax numbers in there.
Where we ended up for the month of October was we were $56.6 million actual sales taxes versus
$57.8 million. So that's a shortage of $1.1 million or an adverse variance of 2%. Year to date, we're
up 4.7%-- excuse me, year to date we're down 1.2% versus budget, which is a shortfall of about
$6.6 million.
As far as year over year goes, we're about $21 million over last year, which is a 4.0% increase year
over year-- so a good return for the year, but still short of our budget, which was anticipated to be
4.4% percent.
The rest of the numbers are in the package. There's really nothing unusual for the month to point
out. So I'd be happy to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: I don't see any questions about October. Maybe the sales tax update will trigger
some questions tomorrow.
But until then we'll move on to the LiVE update.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great. Doug McLeod again. This is the monthly update that we give on the
LiVE low-income fares program. There's really nothing unusual about the month that's happened.
Everything seems to be going very well. We're still processing folks within the two-week time
period that we promised them to get their eligibility cards out once they're approved. So simply,
in the memo we've updated just the stats up through the end of last week.
So with that, I'd be happy to take any questions on that memo, too.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have one question. I may have asked this, so forgive me if I have. What
are our targets for getting folks enrolled?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather. We have not set those targets. We know
approximately what we used to for budgeting purposes. But we haven't set targets as to what we
should meet on a monthly or annual basis at this time. We wanted to see how the natural attrition
kind of came forward. And then we'll look at that and revisit that at the beginning of the year, when
we start our intense marketing campaign to move forward.
And that marketing campaign, I just want to mention, we've expanded to just from the LiVE
program to all discounts, because what we found out through this process is that people are not
aware of those other discounts that we have available. But I think we're going to look at that, see
where we're at, and then we're going to work on targets and goals for the following two to three
year period of time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom, you're next.
BOB BROOM: Just out of curiosity, are you like at 80% of the potential population out there that
you're going to serve with this program? Or where do you think you are at?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Where are we at currently?
BOB BROOM: Currently.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So currently, no, we don't even think we've kind of skimmed the surface
of who's potentially eligible. And so that's why-- but we haven't also marketed this very strongly
yet due to other things that have been going on. So that's why we're going to do that in January.
We do think that the population of people that already have access to benefits, that would be an
easy process for them, is much larger than what we're accessing right now. And one of the things
we're talking about is adding a roving person to sign people up. And we've been talking to DHS
recently about whether or not we could expand our contract with them.
And what I mean by that is, what we're hearing from the homeless community corrections, some
other areas in our meetings that we've had with them on a regular basis, is that people need help
with computers, filling out the forms, even if they already have benefits, just showing them where
to go and what box to check.
So we're looking at spending some of the money that we have available to have someone that
would, for instance, say, Monday morning be at the Denver Library, Monday afternoon be in
Arapahoe, County, Friday morning up in Boulder, so that each day there was a place that people
could go, and it would be predictable for them to get those services. And then if that was popular,
then we might look at expanding that, and if it helped meet our goals of increasing that population.

BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Chair, my question was very similar Director Broom's. And I don't know
that you can predict numbers, but my guess is that at some point in time, we're going to get to a
point where the program is really solid, and most people are in. And then you're going to get some
people coming in, some people going out. Do you have any idea how long a period of time that
might take to get to that point?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the only evidence we have is King County. And so that's because all
the other programs, the other two agencies that are doing it, just recently started also. So based on
what King County-- they found that they met kind of a saturation point in about year three.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: It's good to know. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks. I'm big on this program. And I think it's a wonderful thing that we
have done for our riders. But one of the things that I notice is that one out of every six people do
not know about our other services. So people are starting to hear about this, because we've done a
lot of outreach with a lot of partners.
And I hear this in my day job all the time, is that people who are younger and people who are older
are applying for this, because they are unaware that they get a better discount. And so I think that,
as we move forward with this program, that's one of the things that we need to highlight-- is that,
if you're older or if you're younger, you don't have to apply for this, because you get a better deal
already.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Mr. Chair, I think that's I was talking to Director Lewis about when
she asked her question, was exactly that. So the marketing program that we're going to initiate, we
originally were just concentrating on the LiVE program.
But after the feedback from DHS, the feedback we're getting from our own comments that we get
and suggestions, and just the rejection rate we have because they're of an age that they qualify for
a better discount, we have expanded that-- I use "we" loosely, "marketing"-- Pauletta's lovely group
has agreed to expand that program. And they have a very good plan that they're putting forward
which not only emphasizes the LiVE, but shows just all the discounts that are available to people
based on their age group, or if they have a disability, or whatever it might be, that they can qualify
for.
So I think we'll get that. Because, I have to be honest, it was a surprise to all of us, that, what do
you mean you don't know about that youth discount? What do you mean you don't know-- we
know about it. So we live it every day.
So yes, we will be including that in the program.

Oh, she already gave me one. Thank you. I'm getting a collection of-- thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Any other questions or comments on the LiVE program at this time? Seeing
none, we'll move on to other matters.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair, I had one item for other matters-KEN MIHALIK: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --if I can have a second. So GM Genova asked me to bring this item up.
I think he had mentioned it at a previous meeting. But in previous discussions with the legislature,
in particular KC Becker, we had been requested to look at whether or not we could do an analysis
of all of our expenditures on an annual basis by county.
And we haven't been doing that analysis for the last couple of months. It is a very, very manual
process. Service planning has conducted their work on that. And we are completing, Doug's been
very involved, in completing that work. We are hoping to have that information available to the
board on Friday afternoon in the GM memo. And then we'll be releasing that to her on a meeting
that's taking place, I believe it's on Monday the 16th.
So I just wanted to give you guys a heads-up, that you can expect that. You may have lots of
questions, because it's been a very arduous process. We have agreed to do it on an annual basis.
And one of the things we're looking at is how we might be able to automate that, because service
planning's part of it is extremely laborious and so is ours. So it's just, we don't keep track of it that
way, so we have to split every single trip into a county, every single stop into which county it is,
we have to keep track of whether a bus or train stops in a particular county or it just goes straight
through.
So it's just been a process. But I just wanted to let you know that you can expect that on Friday.
And feel free, feel free, to call me and ask questions, because it's going to be a lot of information
in one little spreadsheet. And we just want you to know to feel free to call me. And then we'll
probably discuss it in more detail at a future FA&A meeting in January.
It's just, the timing has been very, very, we just haven't been able to get it done in time. And so the
timing is very, very short. But we want to make sure you had a copy of it before it was presented
to any legislators on Monday. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Yes, Mr. Chairman.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just for the sake of the record, and not
to tax your voice, I think this is a yes or no, we now have compiled expenditures by county. But
we previously have compiled, and have available, and do update, income by county, don't we?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we have that for sales and use tax that I produce on a regular basis.
What we don't usually do is fare revenue grants, all of that type of, so we have now gone delving
into that for every type of revenue that we have.

DOUG TISDALE: So we have both income and expenses that we can now display county by
county?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Absolutely, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Really, that was my question, Heather. And so
tonight we approve these cooperative agreements that we have with different municipalities in
giving $1.9 million to Boulder for the HOP, for example.
And so being able to show the revenue coming in, and then the expenditures going out, that's what
you're going to be giving us. Is that right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct. And it's on an annual basis. So remember, one of the
things that's going to be a little confusing when you see the information is, we typically have shown
you construction projects by county. But remember, construction projects are on a multi-year basis.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. I think we want main operations and maintenance. Isn't that just your
regular service that you're doing, not the capital projects?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This actually will include operations as well as depreciation, which is a
surrogate for the capital projects, because that's what our service planning numbers are based on.
So we want them to reconcile to those numbers.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Quick question, I hope. Is there an adjustment for the size of the county? So
Jefferson County is 700 square miles, and Denver is like 150.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather again. So there's not an adjustment for the size of the
county. It's based on the service that is provided in the county. So the number of stops or the
number of stations in the county is what we used.
On the revenue side, we used boardings and alightings, because that's where people pay the fare.
But for the expenditure piece of it, we actually used where people use the service.
JEFF WALKER: OK, Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. And that's on Friday, hopefully?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. That is our intent. It's to present it to Dave, I've been talking to
him about it, but present it to him on Friday morning. And then he would like to include it in his
board memo on Friday afternoon to the Board. And then we'll be presenting it to the legislator,
maybe multiple, I don't know how many are going to be at the meeting, on Monday.
KEN MIHALIK: And then your voice can recover over the weekend.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I hope, yes.
KEN MIHALIK: before the calls come in. OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Could that report be presented in Excel, so that I do not have to convert
from PDF to Excel and deal with merge columns and other errors?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I can provide it to the board in, it will go out to the public in PDF, but I
can provide in Excel to the Board of Directors.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Any other matters? Seeing none, we will meet in January on the 14th. And we
will call this adjourned as of 9:48, 8:48, sorry. Let's take an hour.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

