Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, October 3, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
5:34 PM
5:10 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:07 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Present

5:02 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:38 PM
5:28 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:28 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:17 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Absent
Present
Absent

5:26 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:17 PM

5:33 PM

Directors Deadwyler, Sisk, and Tisdale were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Andrew Bates, Rachel Carson, Joe
Christie, Garrett Christnacht, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Kevin
Diviness, Jeet Desai, Sherry Ellebracht, Raleigh Elstun, David Genova,
Bob Grado, Cheryl Graves, Pauline Haberman, John Hersey, Gary
Hougen, Jeff Kay, Jim Kelley, Mitch Kuharski, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Allen Miller, Andy Mutz, Ryan Oge,
Thomas Papadinoff, Tai-Shrae Parish, Mike Peters, Michael Porter,
Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Ruth Seleske, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill
Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Rebecca Tate, Brian Thye, Mark Tieman,
Gary Turnquist, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch,
Jeff Whiteman, Karen Young.

Others Present:

Terri Binder, Zac Brown, Shelley Cook, Mark Deven, Mike Dino, Stan
Edwards, Jean Gordon, Jeremy Gregory, William Gross, Hannah
Jackson, Tracey Kraft-Tharp, Bob Manwaring, John Marriott, Loren
Naftz, Roger Sherman, Peter Strange, John Thompson, Joe Triplett,
Megan Wagner, Walter Weart, Kami Welch, Bob Wilson.

Chair Hoy opened the meeting by taking a moment of silence to recognize the victims of
Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, Jose, and Maria and the attack in Las Vegas on October 1,
2017. He also welcomed Nicole Carey as the newest member of the Board Office team
and congratulated Tai-Shrae Parish on her acceptance into a master’s degree program.

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, spoke about the list he had provided to the
Board regarding candidates for local government office. He said the
candidates’ information is hard to track down and that not every jurisdiction
displayed the information on its website. He said that he would give Sherry
Ellebracht, RTD’s Government Relations Officer, more information as it
became available. He stated that the Metro Mayors Caucus would be
meeting the following day for the last meeting of the year and would be
discussing statewide regional funding. He said a transportation sales tax
initiative would be put forward in 2018. He said the details had not been
finalized but stated that the mayors involved would discuss distribution
scenarios and amounts. He said the ballot measure would pick up where
House Bill 17-1242 left off, with a revenue distribution of 45% going to the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), 15% going to a mobility
fund, and 35% going to local jurisdictions, to be further split between cities

and counties. He said that no money would flow directly to RTD but stated
the agency could receive funding through the mobility fund. He noted that
the revenues distributed to local jurisdictions would be fully flexible and said
RTD could partner with those jurisdictions. He said the measure would be
easier to pass via the ballot than by going through the legislature. He stated
the details would be finalized in time to gather signatures by February or
March of 2018. He said that he would leave the discussion surrounding the
legislative special session to Brandeberry McKenna (BBMK). He closed by
saying that the metro mayors supported the fix to Senate Bill 17-267
(SB267) and that, even though it did not happen, he wanted to acknowledge
that several mayors were present at the press conference and testified
before the legislature.

• State Update- Brandeberry McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK), stated
that the General Assembly convened on Monday, October 1 and adjourned
on October 2 without resolving the drafting error in SB267. She said that
RTD did not ask for the special session, though the special session could
have benefitted RTD and other special districts. She said, while the bill did
not pass, there was support for special districts and for fixing the problem.
She stated there was less consensus on the way to fix the error. She stated
that, despite strong support in the Republican caucus in the Senate and the
House, Senate Republican leadership sent the bill to a kill committee. She
said in the end only five people in the Senate actually voted on the bill on a
3-2 party-line vote. She said she believed there is an opportunity for a
remedy for RTD’s loss of revenue and that BBMK has been working with
legislative partners to find ways for the agency to be successful. She noted
that Directors Anderson and Solano spoke at the Capitol.
Director Broom asked what RTD’s position would be if the Senate were to
introduce a bill in January that would place the fix on the November ballot.
Ms. Brandeberry said that she would be opposed such a measure, because
the General Assembly’s attorneys and others say that doing so would not be
necessary. She said the merits would be debated, but the agency has a
strong case. She noted there are other options to restore the lost revenue
that would not require a ballot measure.
Director Francone asked how Governor Hickenlooper had gotten the idea
that RTD would pay the costs the special session. She recalled that the
agency did not entertain that idea.
General Manager Genova said that there was some discussion about
whether such a payment would even be legal and had consulted with
counsel. He said there is now law, rule, or case definitive on that question.

Director Francone said she had heard from several people complaining that
the appearance of paying for the special session or any session would reflect
badly on the agency and would resemble a pay-to-play scheme. She said
that, going forward, the fix would come during a regular session and RTD
would not be asked to pay.
General Manager Genova said that was correct and that he thought the
notion of paying for the special session was a bad idea because of the
potential perception of a conflict of interest.
Director Folska asked how much an election would the cost the agency.
Ms. Brandeberry said that is a question that has come up. She said that the
cost for the most recent election for the Scientific and Cultural Facilities
District (SCFD), which has district boundaries similar to RTD’s, was over $1
million.
Director Folska asked how many different organizations would stand to
benefit from the legislative fix.
Ms. Brandeberry responded that eight to 10 special districts would benefit.
Director Folska asked whether the 10 organizations could split the cost of
the election.
Ms. Brandeberry said that RTD would have to pay for the election.
Director Folska asked why all of the beneficiaries of the tax revenue would
not be asked to pay.
Ms. Brandeberry responded that it would depend on how the legislation was
written.
Director Menten asked about a meeting with state Representative Steve
Lebsock and asked about he topic of the legislation he intends to run.
Julie McKenna, BBMK, said that her firm met with Representative Lebsock in
June to discuss his potential legislation. She said he had concerns regarding
costs and contractors and had inquired how he could be helpful.
General Manager Genova said that Representative Lebsock had spoken in
their meetings about the accountability of the North Metro Line and stated
that he had considered sponsoring a bill about FasTracks.
Director Menten asked which district Rep. Lebsock represented.

Ms. McKenna said that he represented Thornton and was also running for
State Treasurer.
Director Anderson said that RTD would have to pay the county clerk in each
county in the district to pay for election. She said RTD cannot do anything
else. She questioned why the legislature thought that it could overturn the
votes of citizens of the district that authorized a sales tax.
Director Walker thanked those who spoke on behalf of the legislation.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, reported that the FRA issued a five-year
waiver to RTD, which he said was a good development. He attributed the
FRA’s decision to RTD’s reputation and the administration’s relationship with
the General Manager and the Board, particularly since the March 2017 visit
during the APTA Legislative conference. He stated the federal government
would be able to operate through at least December 8, 2017, due to a
continuing resolution that was passed after Labor Day. He said the that
President appeared to be in a productive mood to work with congressional
Democrats and that it was unclear whether Democrats would be included in
the tax reform package. He noted there is an effort to diminish the tax
deduction from public and municipal bonds, such as those RTD uses to fund
its debt. He closed by stating that there had been little movement on the
President’s proposed infrastructure package but noted the President had
been meeting with local officials. He noted that the administration did try to
identify three areas to fund: Ready to go projects with significant local or
state funding, rural projects, and innovative projects such as public-private
partnerships like those used locally and around the country.
Director Archuleta asked when the G Line would see further movement.
Mr. Dino said that the delay has been frustrating for the community and
noted that the delay was largely predicated by the events surrounding the
University of Colorado A Line.
General Manager Genova said that RTD also submitted a petition to the FRA
to complete testing on the G Line. He said the agency heard back on the A
& B Line, but the G Line is still under consideration. He noted that the
opening of the G Line was subject to the processes of both the FRA and the
Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC).
Director Folska asked Mr. Dino to define what “significant” meant in relation
to the state or locally funded projects discussed in the infrastructure
package.

Mr. Dino said that “significant” is not defined but stated his impression
would be that projects would be ranked by the percentage of state or local
funding, where the more funding committed by state or local entities, the
better. He said that the administration is leaving people guessing. He likened
the infrastructure package to the potential tax reform package, in that the
White House establishes the guiding principles, and Congress is left to enact
the legislation.
Director Folska asked whether transit agencies benefit from the vagueness.
Mr. Dino said no, vagueness is something everyone is dealing with.
Director Francone asked whether Mr. Dino had any information on the
FasTracks refund.
Mr. Dino said he had not heard anything new.
General Manager Genova said that the definition of “cohort” had been
circulating.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of
Finance & Administration, said the agency is back to where it was. She said
until a funding bill passes, as opposed to Congress being in a continuing
resolution, the progress is on hold. She said it is fairly clear that the U.S.
Department of Transportation (USDOT) would not act until it received
direction from above, which was anticipated.
Director Archuleta asked whether the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) could
experience the same problems with the Federal Railroad Administration
(FRA).
Mr. Dino said that he did not anticipate any problems and that light rail has a
good track record.
General Manager Genova clarified that SERE operates under the purview of
the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) rather than the FRA.
Director Francone asked whether any of the agency’s unfunded corridors are
shovel ready.
General Manager Genova said some corridors, such as the Central,
Southwest, and Northwest corridors and the last six miles of the North
Metro Line, were ready to go or close to being ready.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 7, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 6:00 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

