Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, May 2, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Doug Tisdale

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 7:55 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
Bob Broom
Director, District F
Present

Arrived
7:55 PM
7:51 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Remote
Present

7:56 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:54 PM
7:54 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:49 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

7:54 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District M
Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Present

7:56 PM
7:51 PM
7:53 PM
7:54 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present

7:52 PM
7:54 PM

Director Deadwyler participated via phone. Director Anderson was absent.
Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Mark Baudermann, Shirley Bennett, Susan Cohen, Lou
Cripps, Nate Currey, Jeet Desai, Nic Dial, Kevin Diviness, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Ron Enserro, David Genova, Bob
Grado, Doug Gragg, Ali Imansepahi, Tina Jaquez, Russ Larson, Doug
MacLeod, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Mike Peek, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Lindsey Smith, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Mark Tieman, Gary Turnquist, Bill Van
Meter, Ashland Vaughn

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, William Gross, Kent Moorman, Katie
Oppenheimer, Christian Reitter, Grace Rouse, Jake Rozencranz, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner, Tim Walker, Jeff Whiteman

B. Recommended Actions

• State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an
agreement for state legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna
Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2017 through
June 29, 2018) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $127,000,
pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 23, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Committee Vice Chair Tisdale stated that BBMK had been
under its current contract with RTD for legislative liaison
services since July 2013 and that the motion was to extend
the contract by one additional and final year.
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, said that
BBMK has done a great job for RTD and has represented the
agency at the Capitol since 1998. She said BBMK did an
excellent job looking out for bills that could impact RTD and
stated that BBMK has great relationships with legislators,
which shows in the way they represent RTD.
Director Menten asked whether members of BBMK contribute
to candidates in RTD races.

Jenifer Brandeberry, BBMK, said that they have contributed.
Director Menten said she could not resist asking how many
people at the table had contributed against her campaign.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, offered a point of order,
stating that there are laws protecting people from being asked
to provide information on certain activity.
Committee Vice Chair Tisdale stated that he took Director
Menten’s question in jest and that there was no inappropriate
conduct undertaken or implied.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Lorraine Anderson

Committee Vice Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, said that he had no additional updates on
the items contained in the Board packet. He stated that there had been a
good response for Citizens Advocacy Committee (CAC) vacancy
applications. He noted that the Colorado Municipal League Conference
would begin on June 20, 2017, in Breckenridge, Colorado, and stated CRL
Associates would be in attendance. He said the Colorado Counties, Inc.,
Conference was also scheduled but did not state the date. He said that
would defer to Ms. Brandeberry to discuss House Bill 17-1242, which died
in committee.
Director Walker asked Mr. Sherman whether he had communicated with
Denver’s general obligation (GO) bond committee.
Mr. Sherman stated that he had followed their discussions and said he
expected the three major associated committees to put out reports over next
few weeks.
Director Walker said the transportation and mobility committee he sits on
would be meeting on May 11, 2017, and the committee would then report

their findings. He said the committee’s findings would be favorable to bus
and rail operations and would include improvements for transit along Colfax
and the 16th Street Mall.
Mr. Sherman said that the amount of the bond issue would be increasing
significantly, opening up significant room for projects. He said that the City
and County of Denver was under pressure and that half of the projects
submitted related to transportation.
Director Lubow asked whether the Metro Mayors Caucus meeting would
include a public component.
Mr. Sherman said that their meetings have a 15-minute meet and greet
period but stated the meetings do not typically include a segment for public
input. He said that Director Tisdale attends the meetings and that RTD
Directors are welcome to participate.
Committee Vice Chair Tisdale said that it is an open meeting but noted there
is no time set aside for public comment.
Director Lubow said that the meeting she attended was open to the public in
the morning but was not open for the rest of the day.
Mr. Sherman said the caucus does not allow public participation in their
annual retreat, the meeting Director Lubow attended, but noted that the
retreat was the only meeting during which the public is not invited to attend.
Director Francone said that she hoped CAC members would fill some of the
volunteer spots during the Rail~Volution Conference.
Director Broom asked whether there are any ballot measures put forth by
petition that the Board should be aware of.
Mr. Sherman responded that, at that point, he was not aware of any
measures likely to come forward.

• State Update - Brandeberry-McKenna
Ms. Brandeberry stated that the General Assembly had seven days left in the
2017 regular session. She said that transportation funding has been at top
of the conversation in the Capitol and that the premier transportation bill did
not make it out of committee. She said that SB17-303, by Senators Neville
and Cooke, was introduced after the defeat of HB17-1242 and that SB303
passed out of the Senate Finance Committee on a 3-2 vote. She stated that
the bill allocates 10% of state sales and use tax for bonding for the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT). She noted SB303 had a high
likelihood of passing the Senate but had no Democratic sponsors in the

House at that time. She stated that the bill allowed for amendments because
of its broad title. She said another bill, SB17-267, which deals with hospital
provider fee, was also on the calendar. She said that bill’s sponsor, Senator
Sonnenberg, had indicated a portion of the money from the bill would allow
for certificates of participation (COPs) for transportation funding. She
mentioned that SB303 did not include funding for local or multi-modal
projects but rather would fund CDOT priority projects. She said SB267 in its
current form would allow room for local and multi-modal projects, because
COPs have more room for flexibility. She noted that BBMK monitors bills
with a direct financial impact to RTD and stated that most if not all of the
tax-related bills would die. She responded to Director Broom’s earlier
question about ballot measures and stated that, though several initiative
titles have been filed with the Title Board, the reality of a group coming
together to enact those initiatives is yet to be determined. She said people
file a lot of initiative ideas but stated those measures would not necessarily
gain financial backing or appear on the ballot.
Director Lubow said she had the impression that there were residual
MPACT64 discussions taking place and that people were aware the
referendum would be a hard sell. She said that she saw the ballot initiatives
as a fall back measure that had a chance of passage because people
understand transportation issues must be dealt with.
Ms. Brandeberry said that an initiative may happen but that her firm has not
engaged in the discussion, because BBMK does not want to give legislators
reason to not support legislation. She said the initiative proponents and
Metro Mayors have made it clear that they will act if the legislature cannot.
Mr. Sherman said that a number of titles that have been filed and that the
coalition is waiting to see what happens in final days of the legislative
session to determine if 2017 is a feasible time frame or if the discussion
may shift toward 2018.
Director Tisdale asked whether there is any possibility of a form of HB1242
being resurrected in the last days of session.
Ms. Brandeberry noted that a bill can be passed through the legislature in
three days once the House and Senate rules are waived but stated that it
was unlikely for that to happen. She said the title of SB267 was broad
enough to allow the bill to be amended to include bonding language. She
said there were only two bills in the system at that point that could impact
transportation funding and that both Senate and House sponsors were
hoping for between $1.8 and $2 billion in COP issues. She noted that
SB267 was still in the Senate and stated that the only major issue that has
passed to date during the session was HB17-1279, regarding informed
consent for construction defects. She said that other major bills, including

the state budget and school finance bills, had not been passed and the
legislature had a lot of work to do in only seven days.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, said that the federal government passed a
significant FY2017 appropriations measure that he had mentioned in the
previous month’s meeting. He said the bill was fairly robust and funded
transportation among other things. He stated the bills should be finalized by
May 5, 2017. He said that RTD received $150 million toward the Eagle P3
project, though RTD had requested $167 million. As a result, Mr. Dino said
that RTD would request an additional $17 million in funding on top of the
original $63 million slated to be requested for 2018. He said there had been
little development on President Trump’s infrastructure proposal, because the
administration would first need to pass a health care bill and then a tax
reform package in order to fund the infrastructure measure. He said there
had been some discussion of a new federal health care bill but noted there
was not a lot of hope for the measure to pass. He noted the President
offered a limited proposal for a new health care bill and that Secretary of
Transportation Elaine Chao reiterated the administration’s hopes of putting
forth an infrastructure plan. He said the President initially stated he would
like to see increase in the federal gas tax, the proceeds of which would be
used solely to fund roads, but Mr. Dino noted the White House press
secretary walked that statement back.
Director Folska said that higher gas prices yield an increase in ridership. She
said a gas tax does two things: raise revenue for RTD and increasing
ridership. She said that $4.00 seems to be the sweet spot for a gallon of
gasoline and stated that Europe has great infrastructure because of high gas
taxes.
Director Broom asked whether the $200 million Mr. Dino spoke of would
require a four-to-one match to reach $1 billion.
Mr. Dino said that the targeting of an infrastructure package of $1 trillion
would anticipate a reduction in the regulatory burden that existing projects
are facing, which would allow the expenditure of funds that have already
been authorized or appropriated but are being held up by regulatory
entanglements. He said that the package would also involve public private
partnerships, which can be challenging to get off the ground quickly. He said
that an infrastructure package of $1 trillion would probably amount to $200
billion in hard money from the federal government at one time.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 6, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Vice Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 8:26 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

