June 11, 2020
Executive Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --Daylight time. If I could just, for the record, do the official roll
call. First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Treasurer Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Manager Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, I'm here. And also Melanie Snyder, our new General Counsel has joined
me as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Welcome, Melanie. And then we have Director Menten on the
phone?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are there any other board members on the phone today? OK,
hearing none, what I'd like to do is first of all-- I'm sorry, oh, OK-- is to get an approval for the
board agenda for June 23. Do I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved by Buzek.
SHELLEY COOK: Second by Shelley.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. So it's moved by Secretary Buzek and second by Second
Vice Chair Cook. Is there any discussion?
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, I do have a couple of points I wanted to bring up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.

PEGGY CATLIN: The first is that we have a staff report for addressing the reductions provided-this is based on the amendment that Director Buzek proposed at our Tuesday night committee
meeting. And it says that the staff will present to the board the plan B amendment on June 23.
So should that be a separate agenda item?
SHELLEY COOK: Shelley Cook here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: We changed plan B in that final wording to affirm that the staff was preparing
subsequent amendments for possible adoption later this year. I don't remember-- let me pull up
what we had actually adopted.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know what? And my apologies. I pulled up the original email that you
sent to me and I didn't have the amended amendment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: But however it reads, do we need to have an agenda item for that particular
piece?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we can't separate it out at this point in time. It's part of an approved
recommended action.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. It just says that the staff will report. So I'm just raising the question as to
whether or not we ought to have it.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm trying to find that wording.
[COMPUTER TONE]
JOHN OLSEN: This is John Olsen. Add to the committee right now. And to Paul and Melanie
also.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, John, could you say that again?
JOHN OLSEN: I'm just about to resend that document out to everybody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Mr. Ballard.
VINCE BUZEK: No, this is Director Buzek.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, sorry. Secretary Buzek, go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm often mistaken for Paul, and sometimes Troy. But you know-[LAUGHTER]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Whatever. Please.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I'm working off the executive committee agenda that was sent to us last
week. Is there an updated one? Because I don't see anything in the draft board meeting agenda that
calls for a staff report.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I'm not referring to the-- I'm-- the motion right now is to approve the
executive-- to approve the Board agenda. And I'm referring back to the committee meeting on
Tuesday where we had an amendment to the recommended actions for the budget that called for
staff to give a report at the June 23 Board meeting.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, Madam Chair, I can read that now. I've got that in front of me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. The first amendment, or the first condition of approval was that staff
include in the staff report for the June 23, 2020 Board meeting a recap of the plans in progress at
that point for addressing the 2020 reductions provided for in the main motion.
So Vice Chair Catlin is correct. There was a provision in there.
PEGGY CATLIN: But at this point, Miss McManus, you're saying we can't-- how do we proceed
with this?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So when we get to item, there can be slight discussion based on the
amendments of what staff needs to bring back based on the adjustment and the amendment to that
action item.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Can, in fact, the backup for that meeting include this recap? Is that going to be
a hurdle? Can we, in fact, have that recap for the staff write-up on the item on June 23?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would have to get with Paul and Heather on that. I know that they
were thinking that it was going to be a stretch to get that done by the 23rd. I don't know if they're
going to have it for the packet which goes out a week from today. But they may be able to get it in
front of the Board, you know, maybe late Monday afternoon so you have an opportunity to review
it. But I know that there was a time crunch.

Maybe Paul, you can speak to this for a moment.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, unfortunately, Heather is out sick. So I can't really turn to her and get
any direction. But as soon as she's well, I'll get an answer from her. Or I'll talk to Doug McLeod
and see what he says. Because I believe he is here today. I'm sorry I don't have an answer to that.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: I had talked through these conditions with Heather. I was thinking it was going
to be OK. But obviously we can-- maybe Barbara's plan as a backup is an idea too.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So you did talk to Miss McKillop about this. And she felt
like she could get it out?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. We worked through these conditions with Heather and Bruce. And it
doesn't indicate the extent of the report, just a recap. But anyway, recognizing what Barbara said,
just wanted to add that too, because I'm hoping it's not something that is not doable in the way we
talked about.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, based on that information then, it should not be a problem.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I think if you've done all that work already, it would be in
place. Go ahead, I'm sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, mine was more of a technical piece. Should we actually put a
place holder on the agenda for that specific item, insomuch as we passed that amendment that
specified that we would address it at the June 23 meeting? But it's just a technical place holder on
the agenda.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I would have to look into that. But there's a particular approved
agenda structure for the Board meeting that's approved in the bylaws. And other than Other
Matters, there's no place to put what actually happen during the recommended action, either in
Unanimous Consent or under Recommended Actions Moving Forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: So would we get maybe an update under Other Matters?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I think you would do the update under the discussion for the
action item.
PEGGY CATLIN: So you're suggesting under item B, Adjustments to the 2020 Budget, and it's
had the amendment placed to it, that we could add a bullet that highlighted those three items in the
motion.

BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't know what you're proposing. They're already listed in there as
individual items up for discussion.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I'm saying that. Under item B on the agenda, which, under Recommended
Actions, there's Adjustments to the 2020 Budget. And I'm merely suggesting that those bullet
points be augmented to reflect the amendment that we passed on Tuesday.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Miss McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Those amendments are already in there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: (WHISPERING) We made (WHISPERING) concerning the staff,
commitment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, OK. I see what you're saying.
BARBARA MCMANUS: They're already-PEGGY CATLIN: Both have been added. OK. My mistake. Then, OK, then I'm fine with that. It
was just that there was a special call out for the-- that I was remembering. OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So we have-BARBARA MCMANUS: Just so-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Miss McManus? Hello.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sorry. My pen hit the mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry. Go ahead, Miss McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So if an amendment or a change is made in a Tuesday committee
meeting prior to the Executive Committee, we always update the board actions to reflect those
amendments so that they can be approved in their entirety, just so the committee understands that's
what our process is.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, if I might. Forgive me, Miss McManus, I was looking at a
previous printout of the agenda prior to Tuesday's meeting. And I just pulled up the one for today
and I do see that it was amended. So, sorry to take people's time.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not to worry.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sorry to take people's time. I wasn't aware of that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, that's why--

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: [INTERPOSING VOICES] clear.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is there any other discussion on the agenda for June 23rd?
PEGGY CATLIN: I do have a question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: I know that Director Lewis had proposed something that she said she was going
to try and go through the proper channels to get on the agenda. And I don't know what the status
of that is.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. So we forwarded to Director Lewis the
process to moving something forward. And we also forwarded to her the appropriate documents
that need to be filled out and brought forward in one of the committees. And I believe she's bringing
that forward in July.
The only way she could have brought that forward to the July 23 Board meeting is if we had a
special Board meeting with that item on it. But I know that the Chair had a conversation with her
saying that some of what she was looking at was being worked on in the ad hoc committee for the
Code of Conduct, which we're hoping to wind up at the beginning of July. And so I think, based
on the outcome of that, Director Lewis will probably bring her item forward in the July cycle.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you. I just was curious what the status was, if we should be expecting
anything. But you're right, it wouldn't have gone through a committee. OK. That's all I had. I'm-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other comments or questions? Hearing none-oh, go ahead. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: It's really not on the agenda. It was more on that last point about the
proposed resolution. And I know Director Lewis was involved when we-- I got her as one of the
signers back for doing the check register thing. So she is somewhat familiar on that end of it.
But [AUDIO OUT] two Board members who have yet signed to push forward adding on, let's call
it swapping out allied security for mental health professionals-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. So, I'm sorry. What was the question?
NATALIE MENTEN: Was there two other Board members have signed to bring that forward
[AUDIO OUT] Board?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Not to my knowledge.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm not aware of that either.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. I don't think so. And I think that's why she wants to bring
it forward through this other channel.
NATALIE MENTEN: And the other channel, so that I'm clear, would be through the Executive
Committee?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. It would be bringing it forward through committee. Should she get
support of additional directors, it would go through the normal July cycle.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Because I only know one process. And that is getting two additional
signers to bring it forward. So I just heard through this other process, but I didn't know of any other
besides that. So I think my question's answered. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten.
Mr. Ballard, are there any retirees this month?
PAUL BALLARD: I'm not aware of any at this point, but I'll check.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
All right. So could we have a unofficial vote to approve the June board meeting agenda? All in
favor-- or let me just go with, who's not in favor.
OK, hearing none, I'm going to call it approval of the June 23 Board agenda approved by the
Executive Committee.
SPEAKER 2: I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hello?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Hello.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Can we ask who just spoke to identify themselves please?
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, I suspect it was Director Tisdale, and he's probably in his car.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale, is that you? Shall we move forward?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. I do have several things under Other Matters.

The first one is scripting for all staff regarding union employee inquiries. And Miss McManus,
could I have you just talk about this a little bit please?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sure. I have a call in to Pauletta Tonilas. As the directors know, I have
been forwarding any comments that are coming from employees and constituents regarding a
various amount of items and copying SLT.
I spoke with Michael Ford yesterday, who spent the entire day with the union. Because when I
started getting phone calls, not only emails, I wanted to double check with him if anything had
changed with messaging that we needed to know. I basically said to the calls that I received
yesterday that no decision has been made to date on furloughs or layoffs. And when asked about
layoffs versus furloughs for the union folks, I basically said that they would have to speak with
their union representatives based on the CBA.
But I just want Pauletta to put together some talking points so that everybody is on the same page,
should they start getting calls. I started receiving them yesterday about 2:30 in the afternoon. I
received six actual phone calls. And I think I forwarded maybe six or eight email communications.
Apparently, my phone number and my email address are being distributed to a lot of the employees
and the union folks.
So we'll see what Pauletta will come up with. And I'll get those talking points out to SLT, as well
as the Board, as soon as we pull those together.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any comments?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. This is Lynn Guissinger. I have a question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: With those conversations, furloughs, layoffs to our represented employees,
I guess pulling together several pieces that we've heard from Fred Worthen, and from you and
from others, Paul, you know, it sounds like-- I guess that I have questions about are we using all
our drivers, all our operators. Would this, if we took any action like that, would that require us
paying overtime? Does it affect our ability to maintain social distancing? And I'm not necessarily
asking. I mean, if you want to answer those today, fine. But it seems like those are questions that
I'm hearing from others on the Board as well.
And-- well, I guess I'll start, I have another comment, but I'll start with that. Is it something you
can answer today or you can get that information to the Board Would something like that save us
money?
PAUL BALLARD: We can talk about this now. The whole purpose for the layoff, of course, would
be to reduce the payroll expense.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm having trouble hearing. Sorry.

PAUL BALLARD: Yeah. Are you getting-VINCE BUZEK: Echo.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Paul, are you on your phone and your computer?
PAUL BALLARD: No. I'm just on the speaker phone in my office. The computer's not on. Is it
still reverberating?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, not now.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Seems better.
PAUL BALLARD: Huh. Well, it's probably because I'm eating lunch. You know, I had a mouthful.
No, we can talk about this now. These are really not complicated issues. The layoff, of course,
would be designed to reduce our personnel expenses to put money aside for next year. And we
would certainly not lay off enough operators to then trigger any sort of a mandatory overtime or
mandating or anything like that.
So the answer to your question, of course, is yes, it would save money.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And would allow us to maintain social distancing? It seems like Mr.
Worthen has been saying that we're using all our drivers to do that.
PAUL BALLARD: No. In fact, once people start coming back, we will not be able to maintain
social distancing, whether we have all the employees or not, because we won't have enough buses.
So we're going to have a point, depending upon how quickly people, our customers come back,
where the demand will exceed social distancing.
And that's going to be a decision point. Do we just stop allowing people to ride? Or do we just
sacrifice the social distancing that we're-- and that's not really a management decision or a Board
decision. It's a decision of how many buses we have and how many people want to ride. And we
just don't know how quickly that will happen. But you should be prepared for that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's a-- it involves how we bring buses back, I guess, too, right?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. But essentially, we have-- in the 1st of March, we had 850 buses involved
in daily pull out. And we were carrying a significant number of people. If we can only carry 15
people per 43 passenger bus, that would require us to have 3,000 buses to really carry everybody.
And of course, that's not a possibility.
So at some point, we will have to either stop carrying people pretty extensively or the social
distancing will have to go away. And that's, like I say, that's not a Board or management decision,
that's just a fact.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Mr. Ballard, that's the assumption that we get back to our
original pre-COVID passenger count, correct?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, yes. Well, even-- yes, absolutely. Absolutely. And we don't know how
quickly we'll get there. But if we're only carrying 15 passengers on a 43 passenger bus, if we get
back to one half of where we were, we will be bumping up against the ability to have social
distancing. And that's if everybody-- and that's if all of our passenger space themselves equally
and evenly across all of our bus services, which, of course, we know is not going to happen.
And so that's what we will be facing, which is that'll be a decision point at some point.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So if it is a decision point, that sounds like there is a matter of discretion
with regard to our approach in those cases. Have you-- I recall, as Lynn did, that Fred Worthen
described that we were already bumping our limits with regard to our personnel. That's what
prompted, I think, Bob Broome's queries.
But are we getting a firm handle on the relationship between social distancing and the requirement
for manpower? I assume you all are learning how to optimize that. And can we begin to think
about what our approach might be? Does it have to be either this or that? Can we improve in some
ways our ability to manage that? Can we tweak the routes? Can we do something regarding the
seating?
I mean, all those kinds of things come to mind as possible, or ways to mitigate that eventual
decision of either turning people away or allowing them to clump in ways that may not be safe.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, I think it really is determined by the equipment that we have, the number
of buses and the number of trains. Ultimately that will be the deciding point. Because, as you
know, we have added bus operators. And our plan was as we restored service to restore it as
operators became available. And so I think it's really going to be the equipment limitation more
than the manpower, quite frankly.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And if there is a decision point, it just seems like there is, will you be
bringing that forward as well, Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, once again, it will just happen one day. And we will try to track that and
try to anticipate it. And we will certainly monitor the trends. But we will let you know as soon as
we know how close we are getting to that. We obviously still have capacity, but we are starting to
see certainly more people downtown. But it will have a lot to do with the campaign that Pauletta's
team has put together to try to make people comfortable coming back to public transit.
So that should help. But then on the other hand, we have the CDC and we have, for example, the
New York Stock Exchange are saying, do not ride public transit, you know, come in single

occupant vehicles, which is another whole challenge. I was on a conference call this morning with
all the leading agencies in Colorado that deal with the environmental issues and we talked about
that.
So there's a whole host of issues coming together that are going to be challenging. But we will
keep you posted and provide you all the data we have as quickly as we have it. And hopefully,
we'll have some time to discuss it and lay out the alternatives.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, I would just add to this that there's also an assumption
that people will naturally distance themselves and wear masks. And that's not true. And I have
thought about this a lot.
Our bus drivers and our rail operators, their job is to drive and move people. It's not to say, you
can't come in the bus without a mask. Otherwise, they're going to be delayed in the service. And
that has me a little bit concerned. Have you guys talked about that, Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. And we are targeting July 1st to start collecting money again. Because
the hole is getting deeper and deeper and deeper, financially, and we really need that revenue.
And so what my instructions are is that is that the operators, because we'll be back at the front door
boarding, is just request passengers, please wear a mask, please wear a mask, and try to, through
repetition, do that. We can also do some points at where we have a lot of passengers boarding that
we could have one of our police officers actually prevent people from boarding if they don't have
a mask.
We haven't really talked that one through. Because there are a couple of video examples out there
where police did get involved in it ended up getting very, very ugly and people being been beaten.
And I don't know that we really want to actually prevent people from boarding public transit if
they don't.
So once again, I wish there were simple answers to these questions. But you should know that
we're trying to think them all through and come up with the best alternatives for you. But it's
ultimately it's going to depend on the speed that people come back and as to how quickly we'll
have those issues to deal with.
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Ballard, this is Shelley. Quick follow-up question.
When you resume collecting fares on July 1, will you be able to open up the space behind the
driver so that you have-- it's almost a third of the bus, from what I can tell, in terms of space, actual
air space and the ability to distance. Is that the plan, do you know, at this point?
PAUL BALLARD: You know, I would have to talk to Michael Ford because I haven't specifically
asked that question. But that's a really good question.

Initially, that was done to provide additional distance between the bus operator and the passengers.
That may still be a desire. But if we start to exceed the social distancing standards, I think we
would almost have to open up that space to give our passengers room to spread out.
And at that point, as you know, we've identified a clear barrier that we are installing on our buses.
They will not all be done, and probably most of them will not be done by July 1st. And we are
ordering our new our new buses with those installed. But our operators will continue to wear
masks. So maybe that might depend on the buses that have barriers installed. We haven't really
made a decision on that. And I welcome anyone's input, any of you have input on that would be
appreciated. But those are issues we're working on.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. Paulette's team yesterday launched the
start of Getting Our Region Moving. It's a station outreach that she has invited each of the directors
to participate in, in terms of giving out hand sanitizer and masks and socializing, what the protocols
are as people are returning to work, in hopes that we can set the stage for folks moving forward to
self monitor what the protocols of safety are on transportation.
So I just wanted to point that out. I don't know off the top of my head the date that that starts, but
all of the invites went out to the directors yesterday.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would just add on that that I know that they're also partnering
with all the transportation management associations and organizations to also help launch that
project. So they're really giving it a lot of push.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Lynn. I guess I have two comments. One is that I think the barriers
are a great thing. It's sort of hard to reopen all of this. It concerns me about the safety of our drivers.
But I assume that's carried through the organization and is a focus for you and Michael Ford and
Mr. Worthen and everybody.
But on the other issue, where we talked about the represented employees, we've have workforce
issues for so long that I really think that layoffs or furloughs, things like that, I would hope, and
I'll leave this to others to comment, that those issues would come back to the Board before they're
made final.
I appreciated the fact that staff brought forward the mid and worst case options. And I think the
Board-- I agreed with those who said we have to plan for the worst and add in what we can better.
At that point, you know, it had a specific listing there, 18 furlough days. That sounds like it couldn't
happen.
But I think that that's the appropriate way to do it. And I hope that that would come back to the
Board before decisions are made. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah, this is Paul. And I think I think I'm vibrating you again. I'll get closer.
You know, if the Board wishes to make the decision on layoffs and furloughs, I will certainly

respect the Board's wishes. I never forget that I serve at the pleasure of the Board. And if that is
the pleasure of the Board, then you can be assured that I would absolutely comply with that.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Buzek and then Miss Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I think I tend to agree with Director Guissinger on
an issue like this and when it gets us to the broader question of operational decisions versus policy
decisions. And I think that decisions that are so impactful that they affect our employees and our
customers dramatically that, I mean you kind of have a fine line between what's a policy decision
and what's an operational decision. And I think in order to err on the side of safety, I think we
should think that they're potentially policy decisions and let us make those decisions. I mean, that's,
I suppose, what we got elected to do and get paid the big bucks for.
So that's just my comments on both of those issues. Thanks, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I agree. Well stated by both Secretary Buzek and Treasurer Guissinger. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Anyone else? OK. You know, I would just say there really is a
fine line between operations and governance. And this is going to be one of the biggest decisions
of our political careers in terms of how difficult it's going to be to move this forward.
And I would just say we really need to take a deep breath and sit for a minute to make sure that as
we go down this road, what the implications of this is is that this will be our decision. And we have
a lot of people's livelihoods really hanging on this one. So I mean, I understand where you guys
are coming from. I just want to make sure that I put that out there.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Sorry to speak again. But just to underscore the concept, whether or not the
Directors make a decision like this or staff makes a decision like this, we, as the Directors, own
them. You know what I mean? The public doesn't look at staff for retribution at election time. So
we're going to own it one way or the other. So we may as well have some more firm say.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's true. That's absolutely true. And agreed. Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Same thing. I agree.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. Well, then that will be how we move forward, Mr.
Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Understood. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: --Menten. I have a question, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Going back to the operational, there's a little bit to learn tonight
about [AUDIO OUT] agreement and how our hands seem to be tied at times. And I want to retract
having another workshop, because god, I don't even know how many we have potentially lined up
with everything else. So I'll ask now. And that is, when I glanced at the CBA, and admit I haven't
taken a microscope to it, it appears to me that, let's say, it's a bus driver, they bid on a job, a route.
And there's only certain reasons that would mean that they were not paid to do that.
And with the COVID [AUDIO OUT] overlapping plan, my question just comes down to basically
this. Do we have drivers or train operators that we are paying but they are not running on a route
right now?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, we have bus operators who are either in training or they are providing
backup service. To the best of my knowledge, and I believe this is true, we don't have operators
sitting around drinking coffee doing nothing. Now if that's happening, we're not aware of it. So I
truly believe that they're either doing backup service or they're doing different follow-up training.
Now on the rail side, as you know we were much shorter on staff than on the bus side. And they
have hired additional personnel who will be coming online later this month and in July. So they
will be available for backup. But it's really a very small number. So it's possible in the rail end that
we could have a small number of operators without assignments, but we're not there yet.
So hopefully that answers your question.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And I'm glad to hear that we've got some messaging coming. Because
there's definitely some copy and pasting going on between different employees with, it's very
common, why are you still putting out advertisements to hire people when you're going to go do a
layoff or furlough? And I don't know that it's been explained to the union that the first option was
furlough days, which has far less impact on somebody, we all know, than any layoff. I don't know
what's been communicated. And I would really like to know that answer. So, go ahead. Do you
want to comment on that?
PAUL BALLARD: I was just-- you said you don't know what's been communicated. Well, the
union has been-- and Lance, in particular-- has been meeting with Michael Ford, and they have
discussed these issues.

But I'll go back to your comment about the collective bargaining agreement. And your scanning
of the bargaining agreement is accurate. Furlough is not mentioned anywhere in the collective
bargaining agreement. So it's not something that exists there. There is a sidebar agreement that
was negotiated last year that made reference to furloughs for the represented employees, but that's
the only place it is mentioned.
So our hope was that once the union sees that we're serious about dealing with the financial
shortfall, that it might give them an extra impetus to come to the table. But that's not happened yet.
So my experience, having dealt with these issues many times over the years, the union almost
always will say, do away with the junior people. We don't care. Lay them off. And that's really
sad. But that, unfortunately, is what almost always happens. In fact, I've never had it go any other
way.
Because the principal benefit of a labor organization, other than the wages and benefits, is to
protect seniority. Everything is built on seniority. And that is very, very sacred to the union, and
it's unlikely that they would ever give that up. Not to rule it out, but we've not seen any willingness
at this point.
NATALIE MENTEN: So the normal [AUDIO OUT] would have been if we had cooperation and
everybody was looking at the big picture is that the union, even though it's not mentioned in the
current CBA, there would have been sitting down at a table with a memo of understanding saying,
we're willing to look at furlough versus not. And correct? That would be, that would be the process
if we had that communication from both sides working towards the big picture.
PAUL BALLARD: That would be a logical process, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. That ends my question. I thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
PAUL BALLARD: If I could ask one additional comment. I am sitting down with the union
president next week to see if there is any leeway on this. So stay tuned. Something could change.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. So just to add a comment on that. We do have a workshop set up
for the CBA, or at least that was tentatively included on the list. Director Broom had the suggestion
that to the extent we're heading into the new negotiations, that perhaps we could have that in
executive session to discuss strategy, as long as our General Counsel feels that that would be
appropriate.
So I just want to put that out there. To the extent we can identify objectives of that negotiation and
what our interests are, et cetera, it seemed like a good thought and a way to get the Board, as well,
better informed about the CBA and the issues there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I will ask our new General Counsel to respond to that. Melanie?

MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, I was just getting ready to. Thank you, Madam Chair.
I think we'll just have to discuss about exactly how we frame the scope of that executive session.
You know, certainly you can use that to get legal advice, and we can talk that through. But of
course, we have an obligation, under our Open Meetings Law, to have transparent conversation to
the extent we can, obviously, in open session.
So we can talk through those details about how we would structure the scope of that executive
session.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Cook, does that answer your question?
SHELLEY COOK: It does. Thank you much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Is there any other discussion on this piece?
OK, hearing none, I'm going to go-- I'm sorry?
SHELLEY COOK: I didn't know if you were convening the meeting. I did have another item under
Other Matters.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, no, I have several. So yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, good. Go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So my next piece has to do with the budget, Cost Savings Plan for
the Board Office. And I met with Miss McManus yesterday and just briefly discussed this.
So Miss McManus, do you want to take this and talk about what we had chatted about?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So yes, this is Barbara McManus. What we spoke about was looking at
versus workload and meeting schedules between now and the end of the year and managing
furloughs within the Board Office. We also spoke about any cost savings.
Right now, we're about even with the cost of doing the meetings remote as opposed to doing them
in the building. So John and I will be looking at if there is any net savings there. We are only
paying for the Board meetings and the committee meetings. All other meetings, we're doing either
through Zoom or Teams, which is internal, an internal cost that's not passed on.
We are going to have to discuss the Board members' budget. We did two recommended actions
for the 2020 budget. And I think it's going to be prudent for us to look at the 2021 and forward
budgets for the Directors and discuss that so that I can put in my plan that is going back to the
special committee, headed by Bruce Able, to be moved forward to the adjustments made by
Heather in the mid-term financial plan. So I just wanted to give you an update that those are all
components that are on the table.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I would also like to just add one more thing. And that
is that in November, there will be four new Board members for sure, but eight seats. And
traditionally during the orientation of Board, we let everybody know what they have in their
budget, including this travel budget.
And I'm wondering, in light of how difficult our budgeting is currently, if before the new class of
officers come in, the Board directors, do we need to take a look at that travel budget and really
kind of hone it down to maybe just doing workshops in the state, rather than flying to different
places, or maybe just having one thing to go to that's outside of the state of Colorado? I'd really
like for you guys to think about that.
Now, we clearly have not been traveling this year. But traditionally, we have the opportunity to go
to, what is it, three, Miss McManus, three conferences a year?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And how much is that total budget?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So the travel budget is $6,000 per Director. And out of that budget, the
first two meetings, the first two conferences, the cost of those conferences are traditionally paid
for out of the Board Office budget for Director training. That was one of the changes that we made
for this year. Because that portion of my budget went away.
So the $6,000, if we added that expense back into the Directors' portion, would probably allow
two meetings. It's on an average of about two grand a meeting out of state, depending on where it
is and who is sponsoring it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So if I'm doing my math right, which is not always correct, is if
we have $6,000 per Board member times 15 Board members, that's $90,000 a year. Is that correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm going to say yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thanks. That's a lot of money for travel. So I would just ask
the Executive Committee if they wouldn't mind just thinking about this. Because I'm trying to
figure out different ways to look at our budgets as well. And we have been saving money also on
our local expenses because people aren't driving a lot to different places. And that may change as
we move forward during the year.
But I do think if we could take a look at that, I would be very, very appreciative. Any comment on
that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. This is Guissinger. It would be the $90,000 plus the cost of two
conferences, is that right, Barbara? You pay separately out of a different-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I would support cutting that down.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Should we go down the line and see? Director
Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: I support that. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I would support it, but I'd like to see the numbers on paper, just to know exactly
what it means.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sure. But we can start having Miss McManus take a look at that
for us. But I think it's something we need to maybe discuss, particularly since we're looming up
on another election. All right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I'm preparing that document. We were tasked to have that into
staff by next Thursday. So I am hoping to have all of those numbers, and I can break them down
in a different way so that it's a snapshot for the Directors to take a peek at.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Thank you.
All right. If there's no other comments on that, I would like to turn it over to Treasurer Guissinger
to talk a little bit about the Accountability Committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, thank you. I was going to put that in here when I had an opportunity
anyhow. I think we have a final agreement. I haven't seen that quite official, but that seems to be
what everybody is sending around is the agreement, which is the red line version that I sent out to
the Board on Friday.
The press release got moved to next week. And we sent out a-- Jennifer Brandeberry sent out an
email asking everyone if it could be Wednesday or later so that we could set a special Board
meeting for Tuesday. We haven't gotten a response. So I think as time goes on, it's getting later
and later.
So I guess I would like, if we can, and maybe Barbara can see what, if we need, what action we
need from the Executive Committee. But since we're have a study session on Tuesday, that seems
like the logical time to put in place a special meeting to discuss the Accountability Committee and
hopefully have Board approval.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Miss McManus?

BARBARA MCMANUS: So traditional-- although we only have to post 24 hours for a special
Board meeting, I would like to get that meeting built and out to the public as soon as possible.
Normally that would go out today, as will the meeting invite and all the documentation for the
study session, which will be a Reimagine session.
So Director Guissinger, the sooner we can get something, a document to move forward for
approval in a special Board meeting, the better it would be, I think.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Does tomorrow work, if I need to send out one more email to the governor's
office and the Transportation chairs and their teams?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. Like I said, we can do it up to 24 hours ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: But just because of the subject matter of this, and the fact that most of
the public are looking at this as a study session and no subject matter being brought forward, I'd
like to get it out there as soon as possible. So if we could get that all pulled together by tomorrow
morning and my team could get that out by 1:00, that would be excellent.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I'll work on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any comments from any other member of the
Executive Committee?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Just a question it seems kind of like a fantasy that the state and the
governor's office and the legislature are relying upon RTD's approvals of the Accountability
Committee language. I know they're working with us in a spirit of cooperation, but I would think
that they're going to do what they're going to do, even if we decided we didn't like the language,
whether it's by putting together a committee of their own or legislating it. So I wonder to what
extent Board approval of something like this is even effective. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, there is that potential out there that, in the statute or something.
But I do think they had mentioned, someone had mentioned early on, the RTD Board approval.
And I think since we have time now that it makes sense to take it back and get the approval as we
move forward.
So unless others disagree, I guess that would-- I get your point. But my thought is that it still makes
sense. And I think that that was part of the concept for the General Assembly and the governor.
You agree, Angie?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I absolutely do agree. And Secretary Buzek, when we were talking
to Senator Winter and Representative Gregg, we really talked about the true spirit of collaboration
and that our Board needed to be part of this whole process. And in fact, we were able to negotiate
two ex officio members to this committee with the notice to them that I could not bring this forward
in good faith without having the Board of Directors included in the whole process. And they
agreed.
So I really do believe that everybody wants to be collaborative and working together in unison. So
I think it's really a change of how it's been just over the last couple of months. So I think it's a good
thing to do. And I think that listening to the Board and their comments, Director Guissinger did an
amazing job of incorporating that in the red line that has been approved by the governor's office
and the legislature. Very, very few tweaks. And so I think this will be a good way to move forward
with this.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I appreciate all that and I agree completely. I just would hate to find
ourselves in a situation where we're waiting for Board approval and for some reason, I can't
imagine why, but the Board doesn't approve it. And then we're back to trying to-- or we get all
these suggestions for tweaking language that could be problematic.
And I appreciate, I do really appreciate them willing to work with us. And I appreciate all the work
that Director Guissinger has done, and Brandeberry and McKenna. It's just a yeoman's task. So
thanks for doing all that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sure. And I understand what you're saying. We did send this to
the Board, what, two weeks ago, and really did not receive any comments whatsoever. And so I
am going under the assumption. And you know, I think the Board also understands that this
committee is going to happen one way or another. I mean really, if we don't support it, then it's
going to go to a different level.
But it feels, to me, like the Board gets it and understands it, even in our preliminary discussion
when we brought it for a head nod, and then subsequently have kept the Board in the loop through
the entire process. And so I feel very confident that the Board knows what we're doing, how we're
moving forward, and I have felt included in this loop.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I agree, and that satisfies my concerns. So thanks
for all that input.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
All right. So the next one is-- I know, I'm sorry, guys, I have all these other matters and then I'll
be quiet and then you guys can jump in-- is the ad hoc committee Code of Conduct. And I just
wanted to update you and let you know that at our last meeting, it was really, really good. We were
able to really dive into every rule, throw out language that wasn't pertinent. We talked about
including people centered rather than stereotyping specific groups of people. We took out language
that shouldn't be in there, like trailblazer. Nobody knew what that was. And you know, we really
had an in-depth conversation.

A lot of the comments that came through were from the ACLU, the Colorado Coalition for the
Homeless, and our attorney, Marisela, and inputs from all the directors, our staff, and the
committee. It was really an amazing working group.
And so we will be going-- so Mr. Meader and Chief Grado are working on this. I'm going to turn
it over to Miss McManus, because she's had a conversation with Mr. Meader on how they're
moving forward.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hi. So yeah, we have a meeting tomorrow with Mike Meader, Roger
Sherman, Bob Grado. And they're going to be making the updates based on the conversations that
we've been having in the Code of Conduct itself in the form of a red line document.
And the next meeting is next Wednesday. And then he's also going to be putting together the start
of a white paper that will outline all of the committee members, the different conversations that
were had during the process of making the changes, and then formalize it once the Code of Conduct
is in place for bringing forward to the Board in the July cycle.
So in the past, this is how the Board Office has handled any of the ad hoc committees. Some may
remember the Fiscal Sustainability Committee and the document that came out of that. Of course,
that was a much longer, much rigorous process. But we keep all of those documents so that we can
reference how ad hoc committees are effective and how Board members can move certain things
forward as a process in improving items much like this one.
So we'll meet tomorrow about that the format that the white paper will be in, and we'll make some
decisions on what that should look like and at what end point Mike and his team would bring that
forward to the Board for review.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any comments or questions?
SHELLEY COOK: Sounds good.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just bravo to the Chair for making this happen. It seems like it's been a real
success.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's a real positive turn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have to tell you, it has been a great experience. And it's been-I'll tell you that Denise Maes from the ACLU kept writing me and saying, are you sure you want
my opinion? And I wrote back and said, absolutely.
This has really truly been an inclusive process and really listening to the words. And I've learned
a lot. And one of the things that I've learned that I think has been really amazing is that how much

we live in our own world and we assume people know what we mean by words that we say that
they have no connection to. And it was just really kind of eye opening. Not just to me, but even
Chief Grado was like, whoa, I didn't think about that. So it's been a real educational experience, I
think, for all of us together.
And also refreshing that the community feels like they have they have a voice at the table. And
one of the other biggest voices on this was Britta from the City of Denver's Homeless Coalition is
the Department of Hope. And she was very, very active in this process as well. So I felt very
confident that we are coming back with a real collaborative, inclusive process that we did.
And in fact, Director Lewis really brought up some pretty valuable points, as did Director Mihalik
and Director Whitmore and Director Williams. It really has been a good process. So I think it was
well worth all of the time that we've been putting into this. And I look forward to bringing you the
revised Code of Conduct, and then I think it will generate some discussion for the Board as we
move forward in terms of what are the documents we are sending out to the community and what
words are we choosing to tell them that will connect to them. So I think it's going to be an
interesting experience for all of us.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, and again, I'll give you kudos again. Because I know this was an idea that
you had brewing for quite some time, and also to all the others that have assisted, obviously to the
ad hoc committee itself. But you know, this is interesting. You create this ad hoc committee. And
in essence, it's a blue ribbon panel of people and organizations that came together to address this
thing.
But unlike most blue ribbon panels that are assembled, they actually did their work in a timely
fashion and you got them to come together and work hard and come up with a result very quickly.
Hopefully this is a model that other communities and agencies can use moving forward in the
future. Thanks for your work.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, thank you. It actually has been a lot of fun.
OK. The last thing I have on my list, and then I'll open the floor to anyone else, is I want to talk a
little bit about our outside contractors' scope of work and our communications with them. And one
of the things that I've learned as Chair is that when we have a contract with a company or a
consultant, we really need to work within that scope and make sure we're following that protocol.
Because any time we step out of that, we might be opening up ourselves for additional dollars or
we may be dealing with the changing of scope.
So I'd like to turn this over to Miss McManus, if you don't mind, just talking a little bit about this
please.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So I would just ask that-- and you know, we'll socialize this to the full
Board, as well-- but I just wanted to speak to this body that when we're dealing with any of the
contracts that we deal with, that we please deal through the Board Office and through the staff that
is managing that contract prior to moving forward and contacting any of those contact sponsors.
I think it's prudent for us, especially in the face of the financial discussions that we've been having,
that staff that know that contract inside and out are the ones that let us know how we fit into the
scope. We're under no means saying that Directors can't be involved in different ways from a
contractor that we have on board. We just ask to manage that on the back end so that we don't get
blindsided with either going out of our procurement process or perhaps asking questions or
responsibilities out of the scope of the current contract that could get us into some conversations
of not being comfortable down the road.
And I don't know, Melanie, maybe you have a couple of comments on this, too, or whether you
have a thought on process. I know you're new and you probably haven't read the full procurement
policy and not familiar with how contracts are brought forward, but I'm sure you've worked with
many of them in the past.
PAUL BALLARD: Barbara, this is Paul. Melanie and I are here. We were not aware that this topic
was coming up. So whatever Melanie says, is it's off the top of our heads because we didn't know
about it. But I'll turn it over to her and see what advice she has.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I understand.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah. And that's OK. This is Melanie Snyder. So you know, Barbara, I
would definitely tend to agree with you. And I think it's just a good practice to make sure that
when we are having communications with vendors, whether we have a contract in place or whether
we're in the procurement process, that we do ensure that we're speaking with one voice to the
extent that we can and not having side conversations. Because that can get messy down the road
as we're trying to-- the vendor is trying to understand what the agency's position is and who has
the authority to make those decisions.
So I would tend to agree with what Barbara is saying. And I'm happy to have a conversation with
the Board or to put together just a short memo for the Board just as a reference point so that we
understand what we're talking about.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any questions, comments?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I do have a question. Have you had some issues with Board members
directing vendors resulting in scope creep? What is the problem we're trying to solve? Is that a real
issue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm not going to say that a recent scenario resulted in that. But I'm just
trying to avoid that from happening. So I just wanted to bring that bring that up that there is a
process in place, and if you could just work with the teams that were managing those contracts,
we can get what the Directors need.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any other comments or questions?
SHELLEY COOK: This is Shelley. This isn't something that's come up out here, but we're taking
up the larger question, I think, in terms of one of our workshops about whether as a strategy our
use and process and posture toward our potential partners, our contractors, non-profits, agencies,
et cetera might be a piece of how we respond. And it seems like this has helped to surface that
question.
So I'm just saying, the fact that it happened isn't bad. If there were any issues at all, and I didn't
detect them, other than the difference in information that seemed to come out. It brought forward
the thought that we need to consider explicitly our posture and whether we might respond to the
circumstances using and emphasizing our partnerships. And if we do, then how we work with them
and how that's promulgated in our processes and things like that, our procedures and rules, that's a
part of that piece as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Hmm. I guess I don't understand what you're saying. Could you just say that
again?
SHELLEY COOK: Well, I didn't see anything inappropriate or that has raised concern. But I did
see that there was-- it surfaced the question of whether, as part of our response, a strategy might
be emphasizing partnerships and trying to do more of them. Because we've talked about that. And
if so, how can we make sure that those differences in understanding and opinion and that hard
feelings don't result and so forth.
It seems to me that brought out something that is important. And I'm glad we have a chance in the
upcoming workshop to talk about it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. I think one of the big issues for all of us is communication.
And if we have a contract with a specific group, how do we as a Board work within the
procurement and what was signed as part of the contract, I think is one of my questions is legally,
I don't want to do something, like I don't want to call a consultant and ask something that maybe I
don't know if I'm jeopardizing a part of an agreement or a contract or whatever. And I think for
me, that's one of the big issues.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Keeping it clean. Yes, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know what? There also needs to be some discipline on the part of our
vendors, our consultants, and everyone else to-- and I've seen them happen before, managing
contracts, that they're all too happy to comply even though it might be out of their scope. And they
need to know how to say, I'm sorry that that's not within our scope of work.
SHELLEY COOK: I agree.
PEGGY CATLIN: It needs to be a two-way street. There has to be some discipline there.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what? I absolutely agree, First Vice Chair. And that's
why I think this is an important conversation to have, so that we're all in alignment with how we
move forward with this. Because I think there's a lot of conversations happening all over the
District. And I just want to make sure that we're focused on what we need to, , how we move
forward, whatever that is that we decide in. But I really just don't want to step into something that
could be sticky down the road. And that's really the only reason I'm bringing this up.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I just wanted to make that point. Because you can ask-- a Board member
could ask a simple clarifying question or something that might be interpreted a little bit more
broadly as finding increases. So I just think that it has to be a two-way street.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do too.
PEGGY CATLIN: I do think that we Board members need to go through the appropriate contract
managers, the appropriate project managers or contract managers or whatever it is. I do think that's
important. But I don't mean to say no, but I also need to emphasize this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, and Second Vice Chair Cook, I think that the workshop that
you're talking about doing I think is really timely.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Seems like that's more the case than before even.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. I mean, we are-- I cannot believe how many items we are
working on that are huge in scope at one time.
And so, that's all I have on my agenda. So I'm going to just end it with a quote for you guys.
Because every morning I have to meditate. And my quote today is one that I think all of you would
know. And it is with Bob Dylan that says, the only thing-- there is nothing so stable as change.
So I will start with that and tell you that this has been an extraordinary month. But I think we have
a lot of things going that are huge that are going to be really impactful for the whole region. So
with that, I'll open it up to any other Executive Committee member for other matters.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair, it's Shelley.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Sorry, everybody. So one thing in terms of the modification to the main
motion on the budget adjustments, we did have a couple of pieces that we indicated to the Board
we would work on right now. One is the idea of guiding principles. And I wanted to, if it works,
let's see how this works. I wanted to share a screen that shows kind of what a starting point for
talking about that has been.
So let me see if this works.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do I need to go on something-- like just go on my--

[COMPUTER TONE]
SHELLEY COOK: Oh. Can you all see anything?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hold on.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm just an audio, Director Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am, too.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, with Zoom it brings up all your windows and lets you pick one. But that
doesn't seem to be the case here. So I'm saying share.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Can you send it by email?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I'll do that. So maybe the best thing is for me to recap it. But basically,
let me see, getting to my mail quickly. See, I just know that the Gmail takes a while, and that
Gmail's my-- OK, hold on here. New message to [TYPING] Vince, Lynn, Peggy, Paul, Melanie,
John. OK, I'm getting as many people as I know who are on the call. And let's see if it works. I
have to attach my item.
Oh, boy, just now it decides to use a different way to lay out the screen. What's that about? OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't know if that's how it always works for me.
While you're doing that, can I just say, Mr. Ballard, is there anything else that you would like to
share while Director Cook is getting this up?
PAUL BALLARD: No, ma'am. I think we've had some good discussions today. And Melanie are
fine and we remain available to support the Executive Committee in any way.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. And Melanie, welcome again. It's nice to have you
on the call.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you so much. It's nice to be here.
All right, Shelley. I got something from you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And it's on my screen.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. So, everybody, what's in front of us should be a good starting point
is what somebody else has done, and that was certainly helpful for me in looking at the UCD

precedent. So UCD's budget reduction principles were what are shown there. And in thinking about
how RTD's might look along the same vein, not that this is where we're going to end up, but just
to give you an idea, the first one being keeping our community healthy and safe. Well in RTD,
we've already got a core value. Safety is our core value. And that might be, that might be the
principal, but it might also be keeping our riders, employees, and communities healthy and safe.
But the discussion earlier really raised an interesting and unusual, or unique even, problem. And
that is, our core value, which we already hold, may in fact, come to conflict with our mission as
an agency. So that, I think it's worth actually thinking about this right now and being thoughtful
about what our decision making is in that circumstance.
So I just wanted to highlight that piece and say that this might be a chance to do some thinking
about that ahead of the time when we actually might be faced with it, as Mr. Ballard described.
They had supporting and valuing our students. We'd be supporting and valuing our employees,
maybe our frontline employees mentioned especially, but everybody. They talked about
encouraging and sustaining broad consultation and complete transparency, or transparency. So just
something that kind of looks like that. Striving for balance is the word they used. We'd talked
about well-rounded response for approaching our service reductions.
The idea of thoughtful and responsible decision making. And more lately, Angie and others have
talked about sort of breaking down silos in how we have done and think about things to think more
broadly about service delivery and partnerships, something we talked about.
So these are not Board principles or values at this point. They're just something that-SPEAKER 3: Homeowners are raving about Leaf Filter, the number one rated gutter protection
system.
SPEAKER 4: If it keeps out shingle grit and pine needles, it'll keep out everything.
SPEAKER 5: It's protecting my home. I love it.
SHELLEY COOK: --brainstorm piece, talking to Board members to get-SPEAKER 3: Get your free estimate now.
SHELLEY COOK: --to get their ideas. Just get them down, not because-SPEAKER 6: We start at 10:00 with some breaking news out of Denver tonight. Denver police
have brought into place SWAT team after a double shooting in the Sun Valley neighborhood. They
say an adult male and female were shot in the 900 block of North Clay Way. Both were taken to
the hospital. Police beli-SHELLEY COOK: --so that we can start to winnow down. And maybe at that point [AUDIO
OUT] things on Tuesday. Because we said we'd come back with something on Tuesday.

Now I talked with Julie Skeen yesterday, was really helpful. She and I discussed ways to, in a
facilitation sense, given that we're doing this remotely or via phone calls, to talk about the use of
a survey instrument. They use Mentee. And she invited me to listen in yesterday, and I did, to see
how that's done in sort of a Zoom setting.
But the idea would be to take-- a lot of these things are going to be not equally but truly desirable.
So how do you surface the things that are important? And the way she suggested was to force
choice in some fashion or another to require people to place one above the other. And so I can
work with her in terms of how that kind of a survey would look, if that's OK with you. And then
we could bring that forward after Tuesday.
So does this seem that, on that one piece, then there's a second piece here that I'd need to also wrap
up. But for the Executive Committee and Mr. Ballard, is this OK? Is this something that will end
up being useful if, to the extent we can make it more than just nice words on a page that actually
reflect priorities or emphases on the part of Board members and that they broadly agree to.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, Shelley, for me, I love the spirit of this. I think that's
absolutely correct. I have a concern about having Julie Skeen work on this because is this going to
go outside of the scope of her current contract and is she going to do this for free or is this going
to interfere with the work she's doing on Reimagine? That's the only thing that I have a question
about.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, let me clarify that. Yeah, I picked her brain for a few minutes yesterday.
And that was my idea for the next one. We could-- in fact, we may not even have to do that. We
can just use Survey Monkey and do what she has already suggested. She was-- you know, it was
just awfully nice to be able to talk to somebody who's experienced in doing this sort of thing-KAREN LEIGH: --to learn more about a shooting near Coors Field that sent one man to the
hospital and ended a young woman's life. Thanks for being with us. I'm Karen Leigh.
JIM BENEMANN : I'm Jim Benemann. You're watching-SHELLEY COOK: OK. Anybody else? Thank you, Angie.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chairman?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks for taking the lead on this. I know this was part of the amendments
of the motion that we made on Tuesday about identifying budget reduction guiding principles. And
you know, I also think it's going to be important to get some broad input from the Board, and I
know you're going to do that. And as you indicated, you want something that's appropriate, not
just nice words on a page, I think you said. And it's something that we can implement and
something that we can track to ensure that they're being taken care of.

So thanks for doing that. I look forward to seeing what others think about this. I just-- when you
open things up to everybody, which we always do, we've got to make sure that we don't just get
pablum and nice words but they're really something that's useful. Thanks a lot.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. That use of the forced choice was her suggestion for doing that. Go
ahead, sorry, sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: I actually, I agree with Director Buzek. And I think sometimes it helps to state
the obvious. And I think it might be good to talk about guiding principles with respect to budget
reductions.
I think we need to keep it defined as such. So just a suggestion. But I want to take some time to
digest this and get back to you.
SHELLEY COOK: I think that's great.
PEGGY CATLIN: And also, thank you for taking the head start. It's always easier to edit
something that's in front of you than it is to create something from scratch. So I applaud you for
doing that.
SHELLEY COOK: And as is I've had a chance to talk to more and more people, I'll start getting
that out to folks so you can see kind of the thinking of the Board in that immediate sense.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And this is Lynn. I'll just echo the comments you've heard. And I think this
is a really good start and appreciate all the hard work you're putting into it.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And the second piece has to do with the motion that Vince made,
in that we would set out a means for appropriate consultation with the Board by the GM's Task
Force Initiative.
So this is a point that Director Buzek and Director Guissinger have already made. This line we're
talking about between policy and operations, to the extent you're talking about things that A, affect
our employees or riders in such direct ways and the idea that the Board members are ultimately
the accountable ones in the sense of the electorate and our stakeholders, at the legislature, et cetera.
So you balance the respect for that line with that reality as well.
But beyond that, the idea, too, that when we're talking about reductions of this magnitude that
really you can't avoid affecting-- you can't avoid policy, that there's policies and priorities and
values that are already being put forward by the changes or the discussions having been made.
So the idea of finding a way to plug into that so that you both appropriately are able to connect
with and help to be part of that decision making, but do it in a way that doesn't infl-- or doesn't,
let's say, impede that work. Because I know, from what I understand, that time is of the essence.
So what I'd like to request from Mr. Ballard-- and this is a little bit like what Director Catlin had
brought up earlier, in that we know that Heather McKillop is going to be bringing back a recap.

But going beyond that, could we get a description of Bruce's initiative, who, I've heard there are
seven people, who those people are, what their charge is? Is there a specific number or percentage
that they are having to do? What's their general charge?
And Bruce's approach to it, the dollar amount, if there is a dollar amount involved, and the
timeframe. So then we could negotiate with you about where we can, in fact, plug in and get
updates and/or see options before it comes forward as just sort of here's our recommendation. Mr.
Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Oh, absolutely. I'll see that we put that together and get that out to you by next
week.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Madam Chair, that's what I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Second Vice Chair. Anyone else?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. I would like staff-- no, maybe all of us-- to think about when and
how we can return to in-person meetings of the Board. I know that CDOT is considering doing
this with the Commission relatively soon. They're in a little bit different situation in that they have
a very large conference room that allows them to social distance, and we may have that as a
challenge. But if we limit public attendance in our conference room, perhaps we can spread us out.
They also have some kind of a panoramic camera that allows the video capture of the meeting in
a different fashion.
But I really would like us to, sooner rather than later, if possible-- and if there are objections of
people who don't want to do it and can't, for whatever reason, I understand that and respect that.
But I really feel that in-person meetings are much-- produce much more effective dialogue. And
to the extent that we can start thinking about how we can do that, I'd really appreciate some ideas.
Not now, but in the near future. Thanks. That's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. I do recall Mr. Meader talking about a
timeline that he was thinking was sometime mid-July, if I remember correctly. But Mr. Ballard,
do you have any idea at this point?
PAUL BALLARD: No. I think all of us would really desire to do that. These remote calls are just
so much more challenging-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, they are.
PAUL BALLARD: --to achieve results. But I know that we're getting ready to move up one step
on the schedule of coming back to normal that Mike Meader has been monitoring. And Monday

we'll actually be going up to the up to 50% office folks coming back. And we'll be discussing that
tomorrow morning at the SLT meeting in how we implement that.
So let me make sure I bring this up and try to get an idea from him as to when he thinks we can do
that, and with the understanding that with safety first, still, sooner rather than later.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I would just say that at this point, I know Denver City
Council is now back in session. And they've done social distancing in the way that they've
configured how people sit. The legislature has done it as well. So it probably is time for us to take
a look at that.
So thank you for bringing that forward tomorrow morning.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have a couple thoughts just on that. One is the possibility that I wondered if
we could move into the atrium, which is a smaller space. But that would let us live stream, if the
problem with live streaming is the basement service, is one thought. And maybe there's somewhere
else we can meet that wouldn't charge us and has a bigger space. You know, one of our partners,
groups we work with.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, that's great. OK, thank you. Any other comments, questions,
concerns?
OK. Hearing none, then I am going to close this meeting as of 1:04 PM. Thank you all for being
on the call. I really appreciate this conversation. I think it was a really, really good meeting today.
So thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks a lot. Bye-bye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Thank you.
[COMPUTER TONES]

