2021-05-11 BM
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Good evening, everyone. I will now call to order the Tuesday, May
11 RTD Board meeting to order. We're convened as of 7:40 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would
respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak. And Thank you all for
joining us this evening. Since the Finance Administration Audit Committee has already met tonight, I will
not repeat the introductory notes Director Catlin announced earlier. That said, I would like to take this
opportunity to remind Directors and staff participating by phone that you can indicate that you would like
to speak by pressing start 9 to toggle your mute settings. And then, on your phone press star 6.
Let me start with our civility statement, which is colleagues being elected as a member of this body
imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency.
As a Board of Directors, it is our collective duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our
business in an atmosphere of mutual respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are the
values that we can all agree upon. As such, I encourage each of us to review our operating guidelines
adopted by the Board and to act in accordance with those principles, which are available on the Board of
Directors page on the RTD website. Thank you.
This evening we will dispense with the Pledge of Allegiance. And Miss McManus, I know that the roll call
has been done, but I am seeing all 15 Board members in attendance for the record. Is that correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. There are no retiree awards tonight to announce, so let me start
by doing public participation.
BOBBY DISHELL: Madam Chair, point of personal privilege.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
BOBBY DISHELL: Point of personal privilege.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, I don't see-- Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I know that it might have been just one meeting where we did a land acknowledgment,
and I hear that we dispensed with the Pledge of Allegiance, but given our current, well, still occupation of
the land, I'm wondering if we could read the land acknowledgment that you had read to this Board
previously for the Board members.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Thank you, Director Dishell. We actually we're going to start by next
month. So we-BOBBY DISHELL: Ah, wonderful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So we did take it through the executive committee. We talked to the Board,
which I'm very excited about. We're just doing the final touches to bring it forward to officially.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. So let me just say, if you wish to speak and have not
already done so, please either raise your hand-- let me start again. I'm sorry, let me start again in terms of
public participation. So this is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to
address the Board. As is our custom, we allow any of our elected officials present to speak first. And if
you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on

your phone. The staff will unmute when it is your turn to speak. And if you're dialed in, press start 6 to
toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that participating in this process you are being recorded. So if you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing, and you will not have the opportunity
to speak this evening. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please
email those materials to the Board office at the following email address board.office@rtd-denver.com. I
will say that again. The email address is board.office@rtd-denver.com.
During this time the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff make contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes to speak. Speakers,
please refrain from profane or obscene speech, and direct your comments to the Board as a whole, and
refrain from personal attacks. Mr. McKay, do we have a speaker?
JOHN MCKAY: I see one person in the queue, and that's M. Scott Ramming.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Mr. Ramming, please.
M. SCOTT RAMMING: OK. I've got a couple unmutes. Are you able to hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
M. SCOTT RAMMING: OK. Great. So again, I'm Michael Scott Ramming, PhD PE. I wanted to be clear
I'm speaking on my own behalf. And I wanted to start by thanking RTD's new Transit Equity Manager,
Carle Green Jr., for presenting the equity analysis of the COVID service changes last month. I'd like to
speak on a related issue, even more retrospective, which is the passenger information signs that were
first installed around 2009-2010, in the hope that maybe there can be some remediation.
So when these were installed they were installed at pretty much every station in the network as it existed
at that time, except for the four Welton Street stations, one of which has since been closed, 10th and
Osage, which had a symbol indicating it was a major transfer center on the maps from that era, and
Oxford station. And it seemed a little suspicious to me why those stations were chosen, so I asked and
was told that it wouldn't be cost effective. So then I asked to see-- could I see the spreadsheet that made
those calculations. And I was informed that there was no such spreadsheet and given several other
excuses [INAUDIBLE] the signs might be shot.
So I asked, OK, well, how many times have the one at 30th and Downing needed to be fixed? Never got
a response. Maybe it was a difficulty of installing those in an urban street environment, although the
downtown stations would be even more densely settled. And I also see that there are globes to provide
closed circuit video data to the police headquarters. And even when I look at ridership statistics, for each
of the stations that doesn't have passenger information science I can find in your rail ridership data
another station with slightly less ridership that does have a sign.
I may be picking on Lone Tree City Center. It's not meant to pick on Lone Tree or to be an urban versus
suburban thing. I want to be clear that I support transit-oriented development wherever it can be created
in the district. But at the moment, if you are to visit that station there's nothing there. But there are
information signs. And I just find it strange that information can be provided where there's no development
but not at Five Points, which has been developed even 10 years before statehood.
So I have to put forward a hypothesis that this past decision was meant to subtly convey to people who
board at those stations that their time or their experience of the system isn't as important as other riders

and in effect they're second class citizens. Which would go against our values from the 14th Amendment
Equal protection of the laws. So I hope something can be done to re-examine and rectify the situation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ramming.
M. SCOTT RAMMING: Thank you
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. Next on the line is the Boulder Transportation Connections.
And someone please state their name who's representing this organization to address the Board, please.
JOAN LYONS: Hi Angie. It's Joan Lyons, and I'm actually going to be speaking on my own behalf and not
on the behalf of my organization that I work for. So as I mentioned, Hello, my name is Joan Lyons. I'm
speaking on my own behalf. And I am one of many RTD Citizens Advisory Committee members, also
referred to as the CAC or the "cack." and I wanted to alert the Board of a conversation that the CAC had
last month during our monthly meeting.
There are many CAC members that are looking to actively engage with Board members like myself and
are here to assist you with any and all discussions and decisions you all see fit. I know many of you
already, personally and professionally, but for reference I work in District O and live in District G. But I'm
happy to work with any of you all as you see fit. Thank you for your consideration.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Joan. Mr. McKay, is there anyone else in the queue?
JOHN MCKAY: That's all I see at the moment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. With no other participants in the queue, I'm going to
close public participation period at this time. This evening, the committee minutes were included in your
Board packet. Are there any corrections from Directors? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. The minutes for the meeting from May 4, 2021, I was
actually absent. But it's showing-- it says that I'm absent, but it shows a time for which I checked in, which
was a time at 5:32. And so just wanted to raise that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, duly noted. Miss McManus, you're making a notation of that, correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. We'll make that correction.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I don't see any other Directors hands up. So hearing and seeing
none, those committee reports will stand is submitted and will become part of the permanent record with
the one change. I'd like to now call on Secretary Buzek. If you wouldn't mind, please give us an update on
your work with the GM Oversight Committee please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. We had a meeting last week that was very productive. We had
our strategic planning facilitators present at that to summarize some of the items that came up in the
workshop we previously held. And I guess the bottom line is what came out of the GMOC are the
strategic planning meetings that are currently being scheduled and set up, the two Saturday sessions,
because it was the decision of the GMOC that we needed some more time-- some more face time-- with
facilitators.
And so those are happening. And hopefully what comes out of that is the end result of the strategic plan
and evaluation process. That's all I have. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Next is the approval of the Board minutes of April 20, 2021.
May I please have a motion to approve the minutes from the regular Board meeting-BOB BROOM: Move to approve.
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I got Tisdale as second and Broom as first.

BOB BROOM: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Unless there was any discussion-- and seeing none, we'll
proceed with the voice vote. Are there any no votes on the approval of the Board minute meeting notes?
Hearing none, that motion's adopted, and the minutes are approved.
The next is the Chair's report, and really I just have a couple of logistic things. As you can see, we are
very, very busy, and we're about to go into an even busier time of our calendars if you can believe that.
So tomorrow the Board Office will be sending all of us an email with a list of events for our calendar.
Please make sure that you put those on your calendar.
Secondarily, for me sometimes, and I get a little confused about the zoom links that are sent to me for all
of our different meetings, so just remember-- this is more for me than anyone else-- that you will receive a
link either from Tai-Shrae or the Board Office inviting you to be a panelist on any meeting. It could be
finance, it could be the Board meeting, it could be whatever. You can add that to your calendar or
however you want to do.
And then the day of the meeting or the day before the meeting, they will send another one. But that Zoom
link is specific to you. You cannot share them. Because if you do share them, you're going to get thrown
out of the link, and then it causes a problem. So just keep in mind that we're working on a lot of logistics,
a lot of time, and we will be looking at perhaps having some meetings in person. And so we have a lot of
irons in the fire, trying to figure it out. So please be patient with us.
But if you have any questions, let me know or let Miss McManus know. But we're working diligently to try
and get everything organized in a timely manner. General Manager, would you like to share with us your
report?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good evening once again to all of you
Board members and to all who are virtually assembled. I'm Debra Johnson, General Manager and the
Chief Executive Officer of the Regional Transportation District. As part of my General Manager report I
will brief you on the following topics, two of which I committed to withstanding items, being the agency's
vaccination efforts as well as COVID-19 response and protocols. Additionally, I will share a brief status on
communications efforts regarding the Fare Study and Equity Analysis and the partnership that we have
entered with Downtown Denver Partnership, Denver Ready.
So as a follow up to my report just three weeks ago at the April 20 Board meeting, I'm certain you are
aware that the agency has collaborated with ATU local 1001's leadership, Kaiser Permanente, SEL
Health, Denver Public Health and Environment, as well as Colorado Department of Public Health and the
Environment. As recently as last week, in partnership with CBPHE, 120 vaccinations were made available
for third shift employees at four RTD operating and maintenance divisions from 8:30 PM until 10:30 PM,
which included the Elati Light Rail Division on Monday, May 3, Platte Bus and Maintenance Division on
Tuesday, May 4, East Metro Bus and Maintenance Division on Wednesday, May 5, and the Boulder Bus
Division and Maintenance Facility on Thursday, May 6.
As you may further recall from my April General Manager's report, all employees were informed via
memorandum for me in early March that they would receive two hours of paid time off for each
inoculation. 700 employees have submitted paid time off request for their participation at the Denver
International Airport vaccination events that were held from March 6-- excuse me, March 26 to April 8-900 employees submitted paid time off request for their participation in the Kaiser member self-service

one-day from March 5 to April 24, and 10 employees submitted paid time off requests for their
participation in the mobile vaccinations for third shifts held at RTD divisions May 3 through 6.
So if that is the backdrop, approximately 60% of RTD's 2,652 employees, which is roughly 1,575 people,
have reported completion of their first inoculation. And this data is based on the incentives paid as of April
30. It is still anticipated that at least 75% of RTD's workforce will be fully vaccinated by June 1, based
upon the information I just reported.
Transitioning quickly to the agency's COVID-19 response and protocols, as you are aware the Colorado
Department of Public Health terminated the use of the COVID dial on Friday, April 16, and local health
agencies are now issuing all public health orders and all metro area public health agencies are
coordinating their respective orders. With that being said, all public health agencies are moving to
previous COVID dial level blue. It is important to note the current seven day case rates per 100,000
people within the RTD district is at 129 cases, which is above the stated level blue range of 36 to 100
cases per 100,000 people.
Public health agencies will re-evaluate the public health orders on May 16 and again on June 16. We, as
an agency, are taking a careful, thoughtful approach to easing back into normal as Platte, District Shops,
Elati, and East Metro are qualified as outbreak sites. RTD will not evaluate moving to blue level guides
until the seven-day case rate is below 100 cases for 14 consecutive days.
Regarding face coverage and physical distancing, the public health order no longer requires masks
outdoors. However, there is an exception, which is face coverings must be worn while waiting for or using
public transportation. And the Transportation Security Administration extended the mask mandate until
September 13, 2021. Denver Metro Area counties now allow private gatherings of 10 people with no
masks if 80% of people present are fully vaccinated. Masks are still required in all indoor spaces. RTD will
continue to adhere to its RTD face covering and mask policy on RTD property and maintain six feet of
physical distancing.
In regards to meetings, recognizing, Madam Chair, that you just spoke about this, with the myriad of
different activities that we have coming before us, as relates to public health orders, limits have been
removed but requires face coverings and six feet physical distancing. RTD will continue virtual meetings
as much as possible, limiting the number of people in face to face meetings to five. This will be reevaluated June 16.
Here at RTD, we will allow exceptions-- training classes, new hire orientations with physical distancing,
and a maximum of 10 participants. Board meetings will remain virtual due to space limitations in the
public health restrictions, and we will reevaluate for September. The exceptions to this include the Board's
Strategic Planning Workshop on Saturday, June 5 and the retreat on Saturday June 26, which will not be
held on RTD property but at a local area hotel in which all social distancing and mask mandates will be
followed.
I learned earlier today that the City and County of Denver will begin bringing employees back on site
sometime mid-June through the end of August, and state government employees are anticipated to return
to their offices beginning in mid-July through mid-September contingent upon COVID-19 case rates. As
relates to office capacity, public health orders are up to 75% of normal business or building capacity. And
as we look at it, we're following current staffing practices until seven-day case rate is below 100, as I
specified before.

And when conditions are met for two consecutive weeks, we will begin bringing back office capacity up to
25%, then 50%, and so forth, with alternating schedules. There's no changes to our visitor policy, and we
will continue to follow through return to work employees symptom temperature check protocol. As relates
to our vehicle capacities, I shared with you last time when we convened that we currently have our
capacity limits still in place. We anticipate moving to 50% of seating capacity for the June service change
and reevaluate for September service change.
Really quickly, to round out this report, as relates to our Fare Study and Equity Analysis, on Thursday,
April 29, I shared with you a memorandum that came from me introducing a white paper outlining the
history of the agency's fare and fare programs, as well as an overview and timeline of the impending
system-wide fare study and equity analysis, of which I have spoken with you about on recent occasions.
A press release was distributed to the media on Friday, April 30 announcing the upcoming Fare Study
and Equity Analysis. Last week, on May 4, I was featured on KOA's Radio Colorado Morning News Show,
and also I interviewed with CBS 4, CPR News, and the Denver Post. On Friday, May 7, I interviewed with
the Denver Business Journal and basically discussed the importance of the Fare Study and Equity
Analysis. Lastly, as it relates to this, at the Accountability Committee I share the significance of the
analysis and the necessity of a study prior to leveraging any promotional fare programs and adhering with
guidance that we receive from the Federal Transit Administration.
And then the last item I'd like to touch upon is Denver's Ready, an effort to welcome employees back to
Downtown Denver. And we've partnered in conjunction with Gary Community Investments, COVID Chat
Colorado, the City and County of Denver, quite naturally along with the Downtown Denver Partnership,
which is leading Denver's Ready. I participated in a media event along with Denver Mayor Michael
Hancock, and Tami Door, and other partners I referenced last Wednesday, May 5, to ensure the
downtown workers know that RTD will ready when it's ready and it is safe and they're able to come back.
So Madam Chair, that completes my report. Thank you very kindly
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank your, General Manager. Any questions for the General Manager at
this time? Yes, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson. And this
might just be my own missing it, but I was wondering if you could provide a bit more detail on what
Denver's Read really is. What does that really mean beyond a press event of, yes, RTD is being safe, yes
we want to bring people back to downtown?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: OK. So basically, in reference to what the auspices of the Denver partnership is
and basically coordinating with downtown businesses to promote Downtown Denver, what they have
been doing is reaching out to businesses within Downtown Denver, getting commitments for them about
coming back into the core and occupying business space. There's been 150 businesses that signed up,
recognizing we're trying to garner our understanding of how many people will be in the core so then we
can literally be ready to transport people, and so forth. So that's the whole premise behind the whole
notion about Denver being ready to welcome people back.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. And one final question, which is with the All-Star game coming up again in July,
with an anticipated sort of rush, the mayor and the governor are both saying, yeah, we're going to be wide
open. No mask restrictions, et cetera. How are we planning to address that given our current service
constraints if at all?

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So basically we are in coordination with Visit Denver and in working with the
mayor's office. I've participated in meetings. We have information relating to what's before us. Quite
naturally, as a rest where we are, we are still monitoring what's happening. This does not exempt us from
not enforcing-- I shouldn't say enforcing, because we are using guidance. But as relates to service
delivery, we will look to see what is happening. It's no different from where we are right now in regards to
the Rockies games that have already been underway, and we have been providing service since opening
day, which was back on, what, I think April 1, April 4.
So at this point in time, we are in communication and in coordination, and recognizing that we do have
restrictions. We're still going to adhere to those, because we are in the midst of a pandemic.
BOBBY DISHELL: I appreciate that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that answer all your questions, Dr. Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Great questions, Director Dishell. Question of clarity,
General Manager Johnson. You said 60% of the staff has received their first inoculation. Did I hear that
correctly?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yeah, approximately. And let me qualify, recognizing this is a privacy issue, it's
based upon the data that we've received in relationship to paying out employees.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate that. A follow-up question-- is that inclusive of
employees at First Transit and Transdev?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: These are our employees as relates to what we're doing, because we wouldn't be
paying our contractor. So I don't have any access to that data to discern what they have been-- if they've
been vaccinated. But let me be clear, all of our events have been open. So when we were doing the
Kaiser Permanente registrations, when we were working in tandem with Denver International Airport, all
that information was made available as well.
So I can't speak, because I don't have a source of data upon which to convey what percentage we
anticipate that to be. But those opportunities were made available to our partners. And then in turn, when
I talked about working with ATU, recognizing that they do represent some of those contractors, we have
ensured that we've been providing information as well.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK. That makes sense. So they'd be leading their own vaccine efforts, the CEOs
of those two agencies.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Right we have also made our opportunities readily available to them.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much for the clarity.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: You're welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that answer your questions, Director Lewis? Thank you so much.
Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you. So first of all, I wanted to just acknowledge the fact that our Board
briefing documents have a really extensive vendor report and kind of an accounts payable roster. And just
to the extent we're wanting to be more transparent, that's a big step. So I just wanted to recognize that
and say thanks.

They often-- and it's kind of early in months, so this may be it, but I just wanted to double check-- we
usually have a sales and use tax report and also ridership broken down for the rail lines, and I've learned
to follow that stuff. And I just wanted to verify that the Board documents will be augmented as we get
further into the month to include those things.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may, Director Cook, you're absolutely right. I'd be remiss to say
that's why I'm working towards ensuring that we have consistent meeting dates. Because if we establish
the meeting date, we would have the information readily available. But considering this is the second
Tuesday of the month and we were just before you on April 20, there was no way we could produce that
information in a timely fashion to provide that to you. So yes, it will be augmented with the next Board
briefing.
SHELLEY COOK: I figured that was the case. Thanks. The second thing is I'm having people contact me,
one person in particular, I think she works at the courthouse at 18th and Champa, and we don't currently
run Metro Ride. Should I just make sure her organization is part of your core group-- she just returned to
work-- so that they can make the agency aware too for the purposes of considering the Metro Ride?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Please restate that for me so I'm clear.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. We suspended the Metro Ride that runs along 18th Avenue I think. And she had
relied on that to get to work at 18th and Champa. So because the courthouse there, it sounds like, has
called many of its workers back, should I just encourage her to make sure that they are among that group
that you're sort of keeping in touch with when you were responding to Director Dishell's question.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Oh, point of clarification, you're talking about Denver Ready. Yes. Or put them in
contact with us so we have a better understanding. I mean, in reference to us, as we go forward, we're
trying to ascertain what level of service that it is that we need to provide. So that would be helpful if that
would come our way and garner a better understanding to speak with whomever is handling employee
transportation coordination within that entity would be helpful.
SHELLEY COOK: Will do. Thanks so much. That's all, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. to follow up on Director Dishell's question about the AllStar game. I don't know about the logistics of perhaps increasing bus and rail service in and out of
downtown in order to accommodate hopefully a lot more folks coming and visiting Denver. Would that be
possible?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So, Director Rosenthal, we are working through all of that, recognizing that we do
have a central service to provide to individuals and recognizing that we also are trying to showcase our
city. But then again, I'd be remiss to state that we are in the midst of a pandemic. And so as we look at
this holistically, we have our teams working in conjunction with Visit Denver and things of the like. And so
we are assessing that as we go forward, and we'll make informed decisions about service delivery.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Does that answer your question Director Rosenthal? Thank you. OK. I see
no one else in the queue. So our next agenda item is unanimous consent. And there are no actions for
consideration this evening under unanimous consent. However, there are two recommended actions
under the agenda tonight listed in your item as item 12 actions A and B. And the first recommended
action is a contract amendment and transfer for the Platte Boiler project. Do I have a motion?
TROY L. WHITMORE: So moved. Oh, second, Director Lewis.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Whitmore and Lewis. With that in mind, is there any discussion on this
motion? Seeing none, I'll call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? OK. Seeing none, that
motion passes with 15 Board members showing Director Whitmore as the movant and Director Lewis as
the second. All right, thank you.
The second recommended action is for the 88 paratransit eligibility assessment travel training. Do I have
motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I have Director Williams as the movant and Director Bouquet as
the second. Is there any discussion on this motion? Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to confirm that the CAC had indicated to us last
time that they believe they were going to be in support-- can we just have for the sake of the record a
report that the CAC did in fact approve and recommend this selection?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam, General Manager.
DOUG TISDALE: And I'm sorry. I said the CAC, and I didn't mean that. I meant the Disabilities
Committee. Sorry.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So yes. As a point of clarification at our last meeting in which we took this up, we
had our representative, Miss Carney who was here, and she qualified that she misstated the date.
Because they had already taken action upon this manner. Hence, that's why we brought it forward to the
Board last week, May 4.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And it was in support of it. I recall that.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: It was in support, or we wouldn't have brought it in the first place before this body.
So I just wanted to clarify that is that was a misstatement that she later rectified. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate the clarification. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I see no other Directors in the queue for discussion, so now I'll call for
the vote. Are there any no votes on this recommended action? Seeing none, it moves unanimously with
Director Williams as the movant, Director Bouquet and all 15 members voting in the affirmative.
There is no executive session on the agenda this evening. Is there any old business to come before the
Board? Thank you. Is there any new business to come before the Board? Director Guissinger. Oh, you're
muted.
KATE WILLIAMS: Lynn, you are muted.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry. I have a couple of things tonight. The first one is about the transportation bill,
and the second one is with respect to the Accountability Committee. SB260, which is the omnibus
transportation bill that's in the Senate now. It was In committee yesterday, it will go to the Senate floor
next, and DBMK, Jenifer Brandeberry has been attending the meeting so long and in representing RTD
and monitoring.
There have been requests from Senator Winter and I think from others to kind of know where RTD is on
this. And it's kind of-- it came up very quickly here in the last few days. And so we talked about it. And I'm
going to turn this over to CEO Johnson here in a minute. But I think rather than trying to reach a
statement of recommended action on the whole bill, part of what they're asking is can we reach out in
support of the multimodal provisions. And Miss Johnson, if you can be more specific about some of that,
I'd appreciate it?

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Sure thing. Can you hear? Oh, I'm off mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. You're off mute.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So thank you very much. First and foremost, in reference to the Senate bill 260,
which of course is, Director Guissinger outlined, the legislative proposal and recognizing that it won't
make everybody happy. It's working to address and incorporate many of the priorities requested by
stakeholders statewide. And while RTD is not a direct recipient of transit funding through SB260, the team
has-- when I say the team, I'm talking about RTD staff-- performed an initial analysis of transit eligible
funding included in the bill. And we will be an indirect beneficiary should this legislation be effectuated into
law.
Just for everybody's edification, when there was discussion around this bill in early March, response to
early stakeholder and local elected official advocacy to increase funding for transit related programs, the
bill authors did raise funding levels for the multimodal program, the non-attainment air pollution program,
and the clean transit program. And so there is funding there.
And while we wouldn't be eligible to receive funding for the programs as relates to some of these
elements, quite naturally, as we think about it in a holistic view point, I would opine that it would be in the
district's best interest relative to multimodalism to consider expressing support. So that's what I have to
offer up.
You received some communique that Michael Davis had put together in detail, and I know I've gotten
questions from some of you, recognizing that we are eligible as recipients from CMAC funds. At the
Federal level, this in turn will enable us to go forward to be competitive for some projects that would go
through the MPO, being the Metropolitan Planning Organization, which for this region serves as DRCOG.
So with that, I will yield the floor. And I see there's hands up. Oh, and if I can just make this point of
clarification, I know there's been comments where it's hard to see people's hands. If you click on
participants and you open up participants, you can see the queue in which people have raised their hands
in an order in such a way. So I just wanted to qualify that for some, because I know with Director Lewis's
hand and so forth contrasting with the [INAUDIBLE] case, I just wanted to call that out to people's
attention. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager. So Director Guissinger, let me go back to you
before I call on other Board members. Is there something additionally, before I call on Board members,
you'd like to share?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I agree with what CEO Johnson was saying. The multimodal funding floats all
boats. There may be some that we can apply to come directly to us. The other money that goes to our
local government partners can always help us as well. And I think it could be that we put together a letter
that Michael Davis and Miss Johnson helped with, or I think it will be in House Committee in the next
week or two. It may be that someone testifies there.
And again, not endorsing the whole bill as such, since we haven't gone through it-- well, there may be
difference of opinions on some of that, but endorsing the multimodal aspects and the pieces that help
transit and multimodal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So let me just ask this question before I go to Director Lewis. Are you asking
the Board for an informal yea or nay in support of the multimodalism so you can plan as you move
forward because it's such a short timeline? Is that what you're asking for?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, please.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So could everybody just put their thumbs up or down. If you're OK with us
supporting the multimodal component of the transportation bill, which would give RTD the ability to
access CMAC. All right, I'm counting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let me just ask, Miss Johnson, is that what you see that we need to support those
provisions that you were discussing?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So, yes. As relates to expressing support for the multimodalism aspect. As I said,
we would benefit from residual impact. So I put that forward, recognizing that that should be something
done collectively of the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Everybody thumbs up or down. OK. I see 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10-10. So all right. Thank you. Director Lewis, I have your hand up.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I was expecting us to have some discussion prior to that vote. And so I'm actually
going to rescind my hand being.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Duly noted. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I guess I'm kind of disappointed. It sounds like this is like a 10year bill, and the state legislature doesn't do any transportation funding very often, and we're left on the
very outskirts. And I would think that we should have gotten at least some direct funding. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Well, originally I was going to make a motion to support, but that may not be
necessary. Just one other thought-- I know we're being careful, because the bill does have some
controversy drawn to it, as any transportation bill does. But there are other aspects of the bill that I think
are helpful to RTD and our fleet especially, when you look at wear and tear on our buses with poor road
conditions and some of the other factors that come into play that are indirect perhaps benefits of this bill
passing.
I don't know that it's necessary that we go to the full-fledged support, but it's just a thought. So I'll refrain
from making a motion. And if that's needed later, Madam Chair, you can call back on me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to state for the record that I am firmly opposed
to the expanding of highways which is contained in this bill. And I'm curious-- I'm happy to support
multimodal transportation. I do support it. I think it's great to see more people in the space beyond RTD.
But I feel like we've been asked a lot to support legislation. I'm just wondering what a support of only the
multimodal component does? Because in terms of managing expectations, a majority of the funding
coming from this bill does not support RTD and is functions directly and is not for multimodal
transportation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Agreed. I mean, I agree. You're not saying anything that any of us knows.
But I will say this, when I look at the bill and any multimodalism, there is no TDM component more
impactful than transit and rail, none, hands down. And I think for that purpose supporting multimodalism is
really important. So I agree with what you say. Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to point out that multimodalism includes first mile
and last smile. RTD has put a lot of effort into work on first mile last mile solutions to bring people to and
from our network. So we are involved on that scale. We continue to be the Regional Transportation
District, the bus company, and the train company in the greater Denver MPO, and the bill, although it
lacks in my opinion, addressing some of the things that RTD does, overall it's a step forward. And I think

we will all find that within the 10 years, as we move toward correcting the issues that we have with single
occupancy vehicles and climate change that more and more people will come to RTD, and we will end up
being a major part of transportation in the future of the area with or without this bill. So on that note, I will
support it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank You. Second vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you. And I just wanted to go on record saying I think it's not just sort of
politic to do this, but I think it's good policy to support the state's bill. There are, among those provisions
that don't even seem to relate to multimodalism, things that will improve our ability to meet a schedule,
just as Director Whitmore was saying. You know, I've seen that firsthand. Having to avoid a particular
stretch of highway because of its condition, adding to the time, adding to our cost to maintain a schedule.
So I think even expanding capacity or improving maintenance can help the agency in the metro area. So I
just wanted it be on record that way. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Any other Directors? Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't actually support this bill, but I do think there was
an opportunity for us as a Board to maybe have a conversation about not just the multimodal but maybe
even the multimodal option fund, but also the revitalizing the main streets programs. Because those
benefit RTD as a whole. And also where the opportunities might lie for us to create some guardrails
around this highway expansion.
And so I say all of that to say it would be helpful if we could have these things, Director Guissinger, go
through committees so that we can officially have discussions as a whole Board to determine if we are
going to support or not support a piece of legislation. It's my understanding that that's why we have
committees and specifically the communication and Governance Committee, so that we can bring those
things through committee, so that we can officially endorse those.
And so I'd love for us-- and we've had this discussion previously-- to think about what it might look like if
we are going to be endorsing legislation, what it might look like for us to have a process around how we
do that. Because I will speak as one single Director, I feel a bit caught off guard. And I understand that
these things are on a tight timeline, but they don't give the opportunity for us to have some discussion.
And I think we owe that to the folks that we represent to have some real discussion around how RTD
might benefit from this bill in terms of having discussions with other elected officials to maybe change
some of the language within the bill.
So I offer that to you, I offer that to the Board, but I ask that of you, Director Guissinger, if we could figure
out a process in which we bring these things to the Board so that we can then have a process in which
we endorse officially the legislation of any sort, this or anything else. Because the endorsement of the
multimodal option fund makes sense, but it still is an endorsement of the legislation in the bill. And so I
just wanted to say that and just ask that we have a process for how we do these endorsements so that
we can have some discussion, because I do think we benefit from the discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis, for those comments. I would just say to you, we
were actually asked to support this bill before Monday. And we did not, because we felt it was important
to bring this to the Board to have a discussion before anybody did anything. But I understand your
frustration. And everything is always on such a short timeline on these issues, at least that's been my
experience with this year and how things are going through in legislation. I would just like to say that I-[INTERPOSING VOICES]

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: If I just might, because I think it's important-- our language is important-- I'm
actually not frustrated. I'm not frustrated at all. It's just a question around process, like if there's a process
that we might be able to develop so that in the future when we have these asks that are coming from
other electeds or from other legislative bodies or other policymaking bodies that we all understand as a
Board what the process is and what the expectation is for each of us. And it gives us an opportunity to
have some discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, duly noted. I understand what you're saying. I'm just saying that it
appears like whenever we get these requests questions on such a short turnaround that it becomes
problematic. And I think you're exactly right. We do need to look at process and timelines about that stuff.
The one piece that I would like to say before I turn it back over to Director Guissinger is that RTD in our
letter of support really needs to state the fact that we are the largest transit agency in the state of
Colorado, representing over 3 million Coloradoans number one. And number two, we should be
acknowledged as that somewhere in the bill. With that I'll just turn it over back to you, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I think that's a good point. We have a process where Michael Davies, our new
Government Relations person, and Miss Johnson, and Miss Tonilas and Troy Whitmore, and I meet with
our lobbyists by phone call on Tuesday morning and are brought up to speed. And we try to bring these
forward I don't think there's a communication in the government Relations Committee meeting scheduled
for over a month. This was long anticipated-- what's going to be in the transportation bill, what's going to
be on the transportation bill-- and then, as I'm sure everybody knows, it was introduced last Tuesday in a
press conference.
That was really the first time people saw it. And then, as the Chair said, on Thursday we were asked if we
could have somebody testify on Monday. We said, no, we need to at least talk to the Board. And so it
really is-- it will go through committee next week. They're trying to get out of the capitol by the end of this
month. I don't know that they'll do that.
I hear you. And it may be that having small committees can help to solve that problem, because it will be
a group that can do a first round and then bring it. It's just really-- once you get into sessions, some of
these things hit very quickly. And this one really did. So I get what you're saying though. I hear you, and I
agree.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I appreciate that. And I don't think the solution is the small committees, although I
am in support of that if we do that the right way. I think the solution is just us thinking about what a
process could look like. We have within our arsenal the opportunity to call a special Board meeting. If it's
one topic, it's 15 minutes, we can all hop on a Zoom and make it happen.
And so I hope what you're hearing from me and what the Board is hearing is that I don't care what
position we take for legislation, and I understand the timelines are quick. The ask is that we just have a
process for how we do our business.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I got it. Thank you. Thank you for bringing that up, Director Lewis. Director
Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just to pretty much ditto what Director Lewis was saying,
and I do get that it's good to have a good process. But then I also hear what everybody else is saying,
that these things happen very the in the legislature. They're now in the 89th day, 90th day of the session.
And so these things do go quickly.

Sadly, I share the disappointment among some that it would have been much more preferable to have
some of the funding come to projects that RTD is doing, such innovation that we see coming out of RTD
right now, pilot projects, and plans, and things like that that are really underway that I wish would be
getting more recognition and potentially some assistance in expanding. However, unfortunately, the
legislature did not see fit to do that. And if I were to be a betting man, I would say that's probably a
purposeful slight. And I will end it there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Any other comments from any other Directors? Did I hear
something? OK. Seeing none, is there any other business to come before this Board this evening?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. I have one.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, I'm sorry. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. From the Accountability Committee, first I wanted to kind of give you an
update on the schedule that they discussed on Monday and what's coming and then talk about a proposal
that is starting to be talked about in the governance subcommittee. They're reaching the end of their work.
Their meetings next week are the final meeting of the three subcommittees, governance operations and
finance.
They're putting together draft recommendations on a broad range of topics-- the local service councils
that we've discussed, partnerships, Northwest Rail fares and passes, use of COVID relief funds,
performance metrics. Miss Johnson, and Director Whitmore and I, and several staff members, our CFO,
and some of the planning staff have been attending those and commenting. I think it's been very helpful
to have Miss Johnson responding and giving feedback to the Board, and we've been doing as well.
So they will be finishing up. They will have a meeting of the Accountability Committee. There may be one
more at the end of this month. On June 14, they will be having the public hearing that's required in the
original proposal for the Accountability Committee. And they will be taking that public feedback back and
making final decisions at a meeting on June 28. Both of those are at 8:30 AM on Mondays. If you can, I
think they'll be interesting.
And then what happens after that is that it comes to RTD. With 45 days, the Board responds to as to
either accepting the recommendations or stating reasons why they do not accept the recommendations.
And it comes from the Board, but obviously we'll be relying on staff for many of those. So June 28 they'll
reach final decisions. We'll have 45 days to respond.
And then they talked on Monday about having a meeting after that 45 days with RTD to sort of talk
through the issues, what the problems are, if there's something they need to remove from their final
report, if there's something that they want to hear more about. They mentioned that they may invite some
of the transportation leaders in the legislature from the governor's office. I don't know that that was a final
decision, and there's no time set for that. But just to let you know that all that is coming.
There is one issue-- we tried to bring back the governance issues in particular. Miss Johnson is leading
on some of these other issues, performance metrics and things like that. But we talked before about the
local service councils. Just this last week the governance subcommittee started talking about the Board
and whether they wanted to recommend changes to the Board. They had a presentation from North
Highland, their consultants, about comparing us with other specific agencies. They pick several that they
feel are similar in various ways and looked at how many people they represent, how big the Board is, how
big the area is.

They did misstate our population quite a bit in that presentation. The one suggestion that kind of came up
was that maybe it needs to be a smaller Board. Maybe they should recommend that it be 9 or 11 people
like that. Elise Jones was the first to say, what's the problem we're trying to solve? And we reflected that
as well.
I don't think, and I expressed this, that there's any problem going through the legislature with a bill and
then all the hassle of redoing it to get to 9 or 11 people is worth it. And there were a couple of mentions of
things. One said that the Board is too much in the weeds, not being strategic. And we pointed out that
we're in a strategic planning process, we're doing Reimagine RTD, we're working on the Road to
Recovery, all of those things.
And then the other piece that sometimes comes up is they say that we're too parochial. We're not looking
at the district as a whole. And we also had several examples there, just one we're bringing in our new
Director. Our new GM CEO, we're all working towards the good of the agency. Another example is that
unanimously we voted to end for now contributing to the FISA, even though some Directors are in areas
with unfinished corridors. So there are actually any number of examples.
I guess, kind of thinking this through and talking with various others, there was a group that used to vet
Board members. And it may be that suggesting that-- and I know that DRMAC (Denver Regional Mobility
and Access Council), Kate's group, does a forum, and vets people. But I'm thinking that may be
suggesting that they encourage groups to vet and endorse Board members might help. I also think
somebody had raised to them the small committees, and they seem to like that, that we are working on
moving to small committees. There's no decision that's been made.
But a couple of things that could make a difference potentially in how well we work, where it doesn't seem
to us that that changing the number and going through that effort would make any difference. So
comments, suggestions, thoughts?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'm seeing no one's hand up. Director Broom, your hand is still up. Did
you have a comment?
BOB BROOM: No, I don't have one. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you Vice Chair Guissinger. I think I like the question
that was brought up of what problem are we trying to solve. I think I come back to that. And I'm kind of
curious about maybe if there's any more context you might offer there or not is OK. I think the idea of if
the problem is that there's not enough strategic thinking that's perhaps informed, then the idea of vetting
candidates or having some group that vets candidates and makes recommendations would be prudent.
There's probably a couple of ways to solve some of it. And I think the idea of smaller Board doesn't totally
resonate with me, just because we are quite large. And from what I understand of our history, we've been
through some push-pull of how large should we be, and should it be elected, should it not be elected
based on some areas across the 2,300 square mile, the district not feeling represented. So I don't know
that the size is a problem. But again, I'm glad that the question came up of what problem are we trying to
solve. And my encouragement or recommendation for the position of this Board and our feedback is
really getting to the heart of that question and continuing to engage with the Accountability Committee
and make it very clear to us what you think is wrong, and then put forward some recommendations.
If it is an expertise thing, then the idea of setting I think is an excellent recommendations. So that's all, I
just wanted to lend my voice to that. Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Dr. Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And just to build on Director Guissinger and Director
Davidson, I really appreciate one, central core concept of what is the problem we're trying to solve. And I
know that's already been mentioned twice before, but I really have to also mention that, because I do
understand that they do want to make recommendations and they want to be able to say, hey, these are
some things that can make the system better. But quite frankly, I don't see that sort of thing making this
better.
You know, we have a great Board. I really appreciate everybody's voices on this Board. And I think
there's a tremendous background and tremendous experience. And that we are elected-- we should not
be appointed. I really don't think an appointed Board would really help at all. We go in the community. We
listen. We're on Twitter.
We are very accessible people. And I think an appointed Board would be just potentially focused on who
are not as connected. And you lower the numbers, and that's going to be even fewer people who are
connected, and caring, and wanting to know what's going on in the community. So I really appreciate,
Director Guissinger, your involvement with the Accountability Committee. And I know it can be a little
frustrating be on the receiving end of some of these barbs that you're probably receiving, and I can tell
you're handling it with grace, and I do appreciate that. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Well, Director Guissinger asked me to interject. And there's not much more I could
add. She had a very holistic view of the meeting and, well, most of the meetings. The one aspect that I
don't think was visited very much, to direct Rosenthal's point is, appointed versus elected.
And I think that had taken place when they looked at service councils and they looked at some earlier
models, way back, maybe four or five months ago. But that was not brought up. And I think that's where
you change the dynamic, when you have wholly appointed or at large elections or things of that nature.
And to me, those appear to be solutions if there is a problem. But we've not really seen that identified.
And there's one body that vets us, and that's our voters. And where do you go from there? So it'll be
interesting to see how that conversation continues. But I would like to acknowledge Lynn's leadership.
She's been tremendous and a good resource. And also, since Debra came on Board for her ability to
interject when needed. It's been very helpful. And I think it's certainly helped our credibility with this group
and all the onlookers. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Before I go to Director Dishell, I want to
thank you for being our other ex officio member for the Accountability Committee, because I think you and
First Vice Guissinger, you've done a great job I also want to thank the Board, because I try to get on as
many, and I see a lot of you in the audience listening as well, and I so appreciate that, as well as our staff.
So thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: And Lynn and I appreciate that as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yeah, it's great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much, and thank you Lynn-- excuse me, Director Guissinger and
Director Whitmore and others who have. And I really do genuinely mean that I don't attend the meetings,

but I listen to them on YouTube. Because I just have a work conflict, and I don't know how you guys do it,
because there's no shortage of meetings.
Substantively, I want to sort of elevate what I've heard. And I know Director Guissinger you asked me
earlier as well, but I think what I'm hearing from others and what is certainly true for me is when the
committee comes back with their recommendations, if they could be tied to a problem statement and sort
of an explanation of how their recommendation solves the problem, I think that would really date us. Or I
guess, just to speak for myself, that would certainly make me and from head nods it looks like others, and
really making our decisions.
I also want to say I have huge reservations around sort of one group endorsing a slate of candidates if it's
just one group. Because that is and can be gatekeeping, especially for who holds power and who is
historically holds power, especially a state where people place a lot of value on how long you've lived
somewhere, how many generations your family's been in Colorado, and who knows who, and all that sort
of political backchannel world.
I appreciate your mentioning that, about just having the groups who are already active in space endorse
candidates or have words as appropriate, but really staying away from the gatekeeping of one group
endorsing this fleet, especially as it would probably be a non-profit group. Not to say it's pay to play, but
donations are donations.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Guissinger, will you provide these updates to
us? And will there be an opportunity before we receive those recommendations to have a discussion as a
Board? Or is this the venue and space that you want our feedback?
LYNN GUISSINGER: The Board official response is the 45 days after the final final decision. It wasn't
clear to me. They asked DRCOG to come up with a schedule, because I don't think it was clear to the
committee when they would have draft recommendations. And there are some that are starting to come
together. I think the one on-- well, I don't know that any of them have been adopted at this point. There's
one of fares and passes, there's one on partnerships and local service councils that are probably-- there's
some that are getting farther along than others, further along.
And maybe I can check with DRCOG and see when they will have draft recommendations. But mostly,
you know, I think that CEO Johnson, and Director Whitmore, and some of the other staff and I have been
trying to give feedback along the way. For instance, they were looking at performance metrics, and some
of them just didn't apply. There was one about keeping our-- Miss Johnson pointed this out-- escalators
running. Because that was one that was used at WMATA (Washington Metropolitan Area Transportation
Authority) where they have huge, long escalators from Subway, and we don't.
So we've been trying to give feedback along the way and much of that's come from staff and from her so
we can look at that. I'm not sure how far before the public hearing they'll have draft recommendations. But
I assume it will be a little ways before we can get that. But our official responses come after the final
report. But I do think it's worth giving feedback along the way to help avoid getting to those final decisions.
So I will try to work with staff and the Chair to see when we can get those.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I do too, and that's the basis for my question is, as a Board, where are the
opportunities for us to engage and for you to provide that feedback to the Accountability Committee so
that we know that it's going there. And seeing our input or our recommendations or our feedback come
back to us and say, here are the ways in which the Accountability Committee has implemented or

changed or tweaked what their recommendations might be. I ask that, Lynn, because my fear is that we
get to the end of this, and because this process hasn't been co-created-- is not incredibly collaborative-that we get to the end of the process and the Board rejects the recommendations.
We talk about building trust all the time. I feel like that's what we're always talking about. And I would
imagine that's probably not going to be a trust builder. And folks spend a significant amount of time
getting to these recommendations, and then they come back to us and there's something that we can't
live with.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't know. Miss Johnson, do you have some input there as to what we might
want to do and put-DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much. I appreciate the earnest dialogue. Because as I have
shared, and as you know First Chair Guissinger, that I had concerns relative to not receiving
recommendations in a format that I'm accustomed to relative to anybody putting forward
recommendations and having specified timelines. I do appreciate the comments put forward by Director
Dishell in reference to a problem statement. Because I too, and you guys know that I say this all the time,
what is the problem we're trying to solve for. As we talked about our strategic planning efforts and we talk
about grow ridership, what is the problem we're trying to solve for?
So in light of all that, I do think there needs to be a process put forward, recognizing that we had talked
about this a couple of weeks ago. What I opined on relative to the state audit, for instance, putting forward
staff's responses, having an opportunity for the Board to review, I don't think that's any different here as
we go forward. So recognizing when we receive that, there needs to be a timeline that's specified. And I
believe wholeheartedly that all Board members should opine, because with you all having the auspices to
oversee the organization, we need to ensure that we're putting valuable information forward.
And I'd be remiss not to say in this public session, recognizing that when there are elements put forward it
seems as if our peer agencies change each and every time there's a subject matter. Case in point about
governance, recognizing there's two other Boards in the country that are directly elected by a
constituency. However, those two agencies being the San Francisco Bay Area Rapid Transit District and
the Alameda Contra Costa Transit District were not included at their agencies begs questions. When
you're looking at escalator and elevator, you made reference to WMATA keeping in mind that that
organization had to pass the 10 longest escalators in the Western hemisphere.
And they have in excess of 600 aspects of vertical transportation. How is that germane to us? And so as
we talk about what we're solving for, I think it's incumbent that this is outlined in such a way. And what I
would offer up perhaps you and Director Whitmore could put forward on behalf of the Board these
elements that we're describing so there's no confusion about what it is that's been memorialized relative
to what our expectations are as an organization relative to any type of recommendations that are put
forward. Thank you.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And maybe what I can do is-- I think what they've said is, well, we don't
have-- they still haven't voted on these proposals. But the proposals are taking shape at this point. And I
guess I can talk with our CEO. And we got so many things going on, but we could get them out to people.
And I don't know if there's an opportunity for us to come together and discuss them where you people can
give us feedback some people have been attending or watching them later and giving feedback along the

way. But I'll see what we can pull together in terms of some of the recommendations that they're moving
toward.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I appreciate that. It's very helpful to know what the expectation is. And so if the
expectation is that we watch the meetings afterwards and then provide you with feedback, that's good to
know. So that's essentially what I'm asking is, what is the expectation for us as Board members, and
where's the opportunity, Director Guissinger? You said that they're being shaped-- for us to shape those
together with input from our General Manager's staff and Board members as well. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I have Director Tisdale next, but your hand is down Mr. Tisdale. If
you want to speak-DOUG TISDALE: Well, I'm sorry. My laptop seems to develop a mind of its own after so many hours of
being on live streaming like this. So I apologize for that. Further to the comments made by Director Dishell
and others, I think it's important to note that the Accountability Committee-- look at that word,
Accountability Committee-- is really acting as a sort of super auditor of the RTD.
And I think it would be appropriate for the committee to follow the same standards that we had so
carefully laid out tonight for us regarding audit function. Tell us what the problem is, tell us what the
evidence shows, share your work papers, substantiate your conclusions and your recommendations. Is
that too much to ask? Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. Now, before I move forward, Director Broom your hand is
still up. Your virtual hand. Did you have another comment, sir?
BOB BROOM: Yes. I got it down, and then I thought of a question that I had.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, please.
BOB BROOM: Have we heard what position that the CML and Colorado counties have taken on the
transportation bill?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger, I'll send it to you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I do not know. We can find out.
BOB BROOM: And then the other thing is, there's some aspects to this bill that appears to me that
wouldn't pass constitutional muster. And if they stroke down, for example, the fact that they're going to
raise the gas tax, but they're not going to call it tax, they're going to call it the fee, that smells to high
heaven. If that gets struck down, does the whole bill go down as a result of that? Or what happens?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I doubt it. Director Rosenthal might be able to speak to that. But I think that they
would segment it in that situation. Interestingly, Mayor Suthers, when he spoke the other day, who is a
self-described conservative Republican-- I think I mentioned this last week-- he said, as a former US
attorney, he feels very comfortable that these fees will be upheld as fees. So that's his opinion, but we'll
see.
BOB BROOM: It's sure quacking away.
[LAUGHTER]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Does that include your questions and comments, Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: It does, and I'll try to get my hand down.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Dr. Rosenthal, I see hand up.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you for that second bite at the apple on this. And as I understand it, the fee
issue versus tax has gone to the court, and it's been upheld. And I see what the legislature was trying to
do with that bill is to say, how do we build something that's bipartisan and that we can get everybody
behind. So I do get what they were trying to do.
Just two quick points to add to some really good points from the lots of Directors, but particularly Dishell,
and Lewis, and Guissinger, and Whitmore. So my sense is we really should perhaps send them a letter-speaking of letters that we're thinking about sending-- with some ideas, kind of building on what Director
Lewis said. So if they're going to send us some recommendations, let's give them some
recommendations that they can send back to us that we know that we could possibly adopt. Hopefully it's
in a form that we can stomach and such.
I think that's fair for us to have that dialogue, rather than just unilateral. So for example, I think there was
some discussion on adding Board members. And I know staff is probably having a coronary right now.
They're like, no, no-- no more board members. But even if they're ex officio, like the head of CDOT, and
the head a DRCOG, or a representative from agencies to provide their perspectives-- if they're voting or
not voting. Let's have that discussion at least.
We heard from one of the auditors, talking about how they have 25 Board members in New York. And
while they have a lot more ridership than we do, we have a lot more geography than they do. So I do like
that idea. How do we give them some ideas. I think those are good on the very concept I didn't get to
address that. And again, I know that we'll have this opportunity to speak a lot more to these ideas as they
come forward, but I share the concern that we'd have an organization that would basically say, you're
good, you're not good, and possibly, with all due respect to all of us who are now incumbents, that would
not support a challenger.
I mean, we have the Director Bouquet who was a Challenger and he was elected. Not to say anything
negative about the previous Director, who was a great guy and I think he did great, great work. But at the
same time, what if he had supported the Director and not Director Bouquet? So you see where this gets
really sticky. And so I really think that that is something I think we should be very cautious about in
supporting. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So First Vice Chair Guissinger, you've got a lot of feedback here. Is
this helpful for you?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It is helpful. And actually in a conversation with the Director Dishell today, I would
not recommend any group that would do the vetting. But maybe if that's a concern that they encourage
that to happen. And that could happen from the LCCs, which represent the aging, and the low income,
and some of the non-profit. It could happen from the chambers. And then it's just a matter of getting more
information out. But hopefully that would avoid some of those concerns.
But yeah, I think we find ourselves often saying, what's the problem. I think that really-- here's what I
would suggest is that I try to get the draft recommendations and bring them back. It's important in terms of
whether they're going to give us their explanation and substantiate with the evidence and those things-it's not our committee. You know? And I think that, as I said before, having Miss Johnson there, and Doug
McLeod and others, has been very helpful in terms of giving feedback.
But I guess what I would suggest is I try to get some of those draft recommendations, get them to people,
and we decide how we want to if there's a time that we can address those. And I can work with the Chair

and the CEO unless others have recommendations. See if we can have a time to look at those in
particular. Or people can just give us comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And First Vice Chair Guissinger, I guess what I'm going away
with from what I've heard collectively is we need to see the draft recommendations before they actually
submit them so that it's a smooth transition, number one. And number two, they really need to show us
the problem statement. What it is, what's the evidence, and what is the recommendation based on?
Because I think otherwise it's conjecture on certain people's parts, and we don't want to deal with that at
all.
I think that that would really help streamline the process, particularly since this committee is slated to end
on July 1 and July 30. It's coming right up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: July 1. So June 13 is their public hearing, and June 28 I think they're hoping to
finalize recommendations. So I would just remind the Board that tonight is May 11. So we're talking about
a very short period of time. So if we call you guys to say, hey, we need to come together pretty fast,
answer our calls so we can get it done. Because I think there's going to be a lot of work to be done in the
next couple of weeks pretty fast. Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Just one other short conversation that took place. There was-- and correct me if
I'm wrong Director Guissinger-- several that mentioned follow-up meetings with this Board after the
recommendation. So it might be part of that process. I'm not sure, but it's not been completely described
to us on the timeline. But I think there's a follow-up desire by the committee after the work has been
completed. So just know that may be coming our way this summer. Is that's correct, Lynn?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that's right. After we have the 45 days to respond, THEY'RE talking about-they just came up on Monday, yesterday, it seems like a while ago.
TROY L. WHITMORE: It does.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --that they would want to get together with RTD and on places that we disagree you
know. And this is one area-- well, there are some areas that I think we will disagree, but I think that they
really are, fact that we've been engaging with them, that our CEO has been engaging with them, and
some of the staff and all. I think that they are recognizing that what they're making are recommendations.
We talked in terms of the performance metrics, that we're going through a strategic planning process, and
those performance metrics really need to come from that process. Push comes to shove, it's hard to say
on specific issues where they'll end up. But I'll see where we can get in terms of draft recommendations
for the Board to start taking a look at and see what we can do in terms of getting response. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Is there any other new business to come before the court?
OK, I'm not seeing any. So I'm going to entertain a motion to adjourn the meeting. Is any opposed to
adjourning this meeting? Let me start there.
OK. Hearing none, 9:08, we are adjourned. Thank you all for being here this evening and for this
discussion. It's been great. Thanks.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, everybody. Good job
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

