2021-08-10
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks
Committee
SHELLEY COOK: Everybody getting back?
KATE WILLIAMS: All right, Shelly. Go ahead. We got this.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, cool. So about another minute here and then we'll go ahead and reconvene.
All right. Everybody ready to go here? I'll go ahead and call to order the Planning, Capital Programs, and
FasTracks Committee, and would note that we've got 13 people in attendance, two people missing. That
was Director Dishell and Director Buzek. And in case these are posted separately, the video, I'll go ahead
and note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being
held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
During this time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with the unofficial
minutes of the board meeting will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtddenver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
OK. So just moving right into this, I'd note that it's 7:38 PM, and we have three recommended actions. The
first one is approval of bridge inspections on-call contract services-- or services contract change. And I'll
read the recommended action. It's for the Board of Directors to authorize the general manager and CEO or
her designee to increase the on-call bridge inspection contract with Alfred Benesch & Company by
$600,000 for a total amount not to exceed to what $2,160,900. Do I have a motion for approval?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin, mover, and Chair Rivera-Malpiede as the second. Staff, do you have a
presentation or any remarks you'd like to offer?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: This is-- thank you, Madam Chair, Board members. This is Henry Stopplecamp,
Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs. The Board report basically speaks for itself. We have an
on-call contractor, Benesch, doing bridge inspections for our system. We've got 109 bridges scattered
throughout, from light rail bridges, ped bridges, commuter rail bridges, and some freight bridges we're
responsible for.

And with the opening of the additional corridors during the tenure of this contract, we're a little bit short of
funds. And so with the additional bridges, we are asking for an additional $600,000 that will get us through
this time next year for our spring inspections, and then we will be putting it out on the street next spring for
another three to four years for similar services going forward.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Does any director have a question they'd like to ask or any comment?
And I'm seeing none. I'm assuming this is pretty routine. So what I'd like to do is just ask for the purposes
of the vote if there are any opposed to the motion.
I'm hearing none and seeing none, so I'll go ahead and declare that motion passed unanimously with two
directors absent, Director Dishell and Director Buzek. So thank you, Henry. Let's move on to the second
item. This is the 29th and Welton property disposition. And just to kind of reorient you, this is packet page
97. I'll read the motion.
For the Board of Directors to authorize the general manager and/or her designee to negotiate and execute
all documents necessary for the disposition by lease or sale of the real property located at 2907 to 2915
Welton Street, Denver, Colorado, hereafter called the property, including execution of any deeds,
covenants, and other property conveyance documents. Do I have a motion for approval?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.
LYNN GUSSINGER: Guissinger.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. OK, we have a mover and a second. And I'll turn it over to the
staff to see if they can go through their presentation or have comments on this. Is that Chessy Brady?
CHESSY BRADY: Yes, hello. I am-- I'm going to pull up my-- uh oh. Oh, I'm here. Can everybody see me?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, it's fine. Yeah.
CHESSY BRADY: All right. I don't know what happened there. All right. So, I'm Chessy Brady, the TransitOriented Development Manager in the Planning Department, and I'm going to talk about 29th and Welton.
This parcel is located at the intersection of 29th and Welton in Five Points in Denver.
And there was-- I put a lot of detail in your packet, but I'm just going to hit the high points in this presentation
and then I'm happy to take questions at the end. So this is a half-acre-- less than half-an-acre parcel that
was purchased in 1993 to be a parking lot. So not a park-and-ride for transit users, but a parking lot to
replace parking that was taken for the-- to be used in the train line or where the train would be running on
Welton, which is now the L Line.

It was purchased in '93 for $97,000, and a year and a half ago it appraised at $2 and 1/2 million. This area
has been subject to lots of change over the past 20, 25 years, and the land values have increased
substantially. There's been a lot of turnover, a lot of well-documented change and turnover, and the many
rental properties have been built in the area, particularly luxury properties.
Also, some affordable properties financed with tax credits. What has not been built and what-- a gap in the
housing in that area, if not throughout the whole state, is condominiums. And that's largely due to
construction defects laws. But what also particularly that hasn't been built is affordable for-sale condos, and
that's a gap that the City and County of Denver homed in on a few years ago when we issued a request for
qualifications for this site in partnership with them. That was in 2017.
Again, that project had very similar goals to this one. And for that, we did select a developer, and
unfortunately they were not able to secure adequate financing. And so in 2020, just before the pandemic,
we did terminate that project. That project, like one that we proposed today, would have provided 50 to 70
housing units on the site. The site is CMX-5, meaning you can only build up five stories. So not a massive
building, and a place where the highest and best use is residential.
So where we are now is kind of back at the beginning with a parking lot that could be for-sale housing. It
could be affordable. What we have is an opportunity to make that happen, to try again, and we think it can
work based on the research we've been doing over the past couple of years.
This project would generate revenue to RTD from the land. It would also allow us to partner with HOST-that's Denver's Department of Housing and Stability, and to help make the equitable transit-oriented
development policy goals that we put in place in February I think it's also important to note here that we are
able to accept unsolicited proposals for development on RTD property, and we have received a lot of
interest over the years in this property.
But by putting out a request for qualifications, we can be proactive and cast a wider net, and make sure
that we're getting the project out to more eyeballs, and then we can put together the best project possible
for the site, meeting RTD's goals as well as Denver's. We have run this through our TOD evaluation
guidelines from 2018. Ticks all the boxes, and I won't go into detail unless there are questions later on.
So what we would do now is put out this request for qualifications, or we would choose a developer who
would be required to build a mixed income for-sale residential building where at least 25% of the units would
be affordable to households at or below 80% area medium income. And just to break that down a little bit,
so our requirement as part of the RFQ would be at least 25% of the units affordable.
If a developer were able to provide more than that, that would be beneficial. But our primary goal is that we
need this to be a feasible project, and based on the calculations that we've done working with Denver, we
think 25% is feasible. If they can offer more, great. And we'll look at that and we'll appreciate that. Similarly,
that 80% area median income.

So when we-- typically, when we're looking at AMIs, we're often talking about rental properties where the
AMI is going to be between 0% and 30% or between 30% and 60%. But because these are for-sale units
where the individual or the family purchasing the unit has to qualify for a mortgage, we're looking at that-that 60% to 80% AMI. And that's what Denver has determined to be the sweet spot for this project.
So we put out this RFQ, we select a developer with input from HOST from Denver. The developer secures
the financing, and then we ground lease or sell the property to the developer, and I'll get more into that
ground lease or sale question in a moment. And we only get to that point if we meet all these conditions. If
we actually-- we select the developer, they get the financing so we know they can complete the project.
They are able to lease or purchase the property based on the appraised value, which is what we required
by statute.
We do have that potential for reductions equal to value of other benefits to RTD which we discussed in
February as being part of our statute and reiterated in the TOD policy. They have to meet our timing
deadlines, number four, and then number five, the ground lease. So our clear preference-- and in these
discussions we've had with the Board over the past few years and in the documents we've published, is
that RTD prefers a ground lease.
And that would be very much the case here. We would require that ground lease for this project unless it
met these one of these three conditions. Either that a ground lease structure is infeasible. So well over the
last three years we have talked to many-- to the growing number of community land trusts in the Denver
area who-- Colorado Community Land Trust, elevation, we've also talked to habitat, is it possible to do forsale units on a ground lease?
And in Colorado, they agree that that's possible. We've also talked to CLTs outside of Colorado, other
transit agencies, it is possible. But every project is different. And until the developer is really in the numbers,
they're not able to make that determination. So we think it can be done, but because every financing project
is different, we don't want to absolutely require it without being able to switch to a sale if it doesn't work or
if we don't get any proposals that allow it because everybody determines it can't work.
So, ground lease unless it's deemed to be infeasible, or if the sale structure of selling the property to an
affordable developer makes it more affordable. If they say, if you sell it to me, I can actually provide more
affordable units or at a lower AMI or for a longer term, all of those would contribute to our move from a
lease to a sale.
And then lastly, if somehow the sale structure is financially beneficial to RTD, and that's something that we
would look at closely with our CFO, Doug MacLeod, looking at net present value, determining what the best
financial move is for our RTD at this time as far as when payments would come in and such.
So those are the three conditions. Again, the preference is very much for a lease, but especially based on
conversations we've have with other transit agencies, leaving ourselves open to a sale, if that's the direction
this needs to go, allows the project to be completed and meet the requirements and the needs of the

community and also of the City and County of Denver. So that's where we've ended up, and I will stop
sharing and look forward to receiving your questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you, Chessy. All right. I do have a question. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, please
go ahead. Oh, you might be muted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chessy. I remember when you brought this to the Board the last
time when it was falling apart. And so much has changed from that time, including the price. And I would
have to say that one of my big concerns is that the City and County of Denver is landlocked and they have
no real estate left.
And it seems to me that this is an incredible opportunity for this agency to show a commitment to community
members in this area. And that 80% of the median income is too high for the folks who live around that area
and could possibly for the first time have the opportunity to own a piece of property in their community.
So when I was reading all of the specs that you had and looking at it, I guess for me, my preference would
be having at the ground level maybe some business incubators where small businesses in the community
could have a little shop in there, maybe have a coffee shop or something that could benefit the riders along
the line.
But then also, having units up above for single moms or folks who are working shift jobs could literally afford
to live there, and not just one bedrooms, but some two-and-three-bedroom. I guess what I'm saying is I see
this as an extraordinary opportunity for us to lead the charge on commitment to community around transitoriented development and taking the lead rather than trying to sell it or to do some other things. I think we
really have a unique opportunity to do a collaboration that could be very, very unique that is culturally
sensitive to the community. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Are you asking for a response from Chessy?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Chessy, I would like to see if you all are willing to really look at some
different opportunities. And I really do appreciate the letter from the mayor and I understand where they're
all coming from and have such a commitment. But I just really feel like we're in a unique spot right now that
we can really capitalize on. So have you guys thought at all about that?
CHESSY BRADY: We have in the past looked at what basically rental housing would look like here. I think
one of the big hurdles is that CHAPA has funded a number of LIHTC projects in the neighborhood. And so
it's not high on their candidate list, which is one of the reasons that for-sale affordable has looked more
interesting for the past few years.
I think if-- I also think, given our-- and I'm the first one to tell you, I'm trying-- I'd like to do affordable housing,
but we do have these statutory requirements that make us-- we are forced to get the appraised value. Or
we can be a little bit flexible with that as we quantify the benefits. But our ability to lead an affordable project

on our own that will require significant resources makes it very difficult. Not to say that it can't be done or I
wouldn't try to do it, but, I mean, given that this is the project that Denver thinks is makes the most sense
financially and for the community, it's a tough-- it would be a tough change to make. We can certainly look
into it more.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, do you know any other transit agencies in the country have delved into
this?
CHESSY BRADY: Not as far as developing it themselves. And I think that's the difference. Our preference
from a risk point of view is to work with a developer to make the projects happen, and that means that the
project has to pencil for them. If it's an affordable developer-- I mean, it's certainly something we could
pursue and provide more information about what other agencies are doing in this specific-- in the specific
realm if that's the direction we want to go.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And then just lastly, I would just say to you, I guess I would be more
excited about this if we weren't doing a 99-year lease. So that we would still hold on to the property for the
good of the community rather than selling it outright to a developer. That's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. OK, next we have Paul Rosenthal. Please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you for the comments from Chairwoman RiveraMalpiede. I just wanted to build on some of the thoughts that she had mentioned. My concern is that, as I
understand it, adjusted median income for Denver is about $85,000. Is that right? Which would make it 80%
of that is about $68,000, which is still quite a bit for a lot of families. Are those statistics right?
CHESSY BRADY: So-- yep. So 80% AMI-- I have my cheat sheet in front of me here. So for a two-person
household, the 80% AMI $62,800. So a family or a couple making $62,000 would qualify.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK, so that's for a couple. So would these also be open for individuals? So that would
be $31,400?
CHESSY BRADY: No. An individual-- it's not-- the math isn't quite what you would think. So a single person
would be $54,950.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK, $54,000. Now is it possible that this could be-- and I know we're raising issues
and you're saying that the City of Denver has its own requirements for participating in this. But perhaps you
could mention to them-- and maybe we could do a letter or a memo to the City of Denver saying, look, these
are some of the things we'd like to see as we work with you on this.
So is it possible that it could also be de-restricted to where-- to maintain that this would be affordable
housing in the future?

CHESSY BRADY: Absolutely. This is our property that we would be working with a developer on and we
would set the rules. So if it's a sale, it's covenants or deed restrictions, if it's a lease, then that goes into the
lease. But the length of the affordability is something that we control and we determine.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And theoretically, the-- and just to throw another idea out there, and I know everybody
here on the Board and anybody in the community has more ideas, but maybe the lower-level units could
sell at a lower rate and the one-- the penthouse could be a much higher rate to offset the cost of the lowercost units?
CHESSY BRADY: Yes, that's how it would work.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. And then finally, let's see. So how about parking? Would this potentially have
parking within the building or would it be on-street parking or how is that envisioned?
CHESSY BRADY: Because of parking requirements, it would be in the building, and the market basically
requires some parking. Maybe-- hopefully not on a one-to-one basis, but there would be parking probably
on the ground level. And you're muted, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, that's all I got, and thank you for your work.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And next we have Bob Broom, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Since we're all playing city planner tonight, I wondered whether
this property was located in a food desert. Maybe a grocery might make sense to put on here. One project
that I worked on a number of years ago up in Summit County had ground floor units made available for
people like plumbers and electricians and that type of thing. And they can also then lease the upstairs for
living accommodations. And of course, housing has always been a really rough problem for service-type
people up in the mountain communities. So maybe something like that might work at this particular location.
CHESSY BRADY: Yeah. Ground floor retail is definitely something that we'll look to see that-- the zoning
requires ground floor activation in some sense, so that should be part of it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Broom, anything else?
BOB BROOM: No, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Always hard to follow a former city manager when
it comes to planning issues. But I do want to make a couple of observations first. As I understand it, the
appraisal that we have is almost two years old that says $2.4 million. We know that today it's worth a lot

more than that. We have all seen what's happened to real estate prices over the past year particularly for
residential.
I joined the chair and expressing, again, my preference for a long-term lease on this so that we have some
control over it, and we don't have a developer coming in saying, oh yes, this is going to be great, it's going
to be wonderful. We're going to provide affordable housing, and then 10 years later, the developer makes
a ton of money and we look like schmucks. So that's something that we must avoid at all costs.
Deed restrictions obviously do work if we were to do a sale. So I just caution, when I say I prefer a lease,
we're not inflexible on that. Obviously you have enumerated, and I applaud you for that enumeration, some
of the qualifications, and I appreciate some of the adverbs that you use in your descriptions of those
qualifications, because it gives staff an opportunity to exercise prudent business judgment and to comply
with the statute, which requires that if we don't get fair market value, we get something specific that is a
trade-off that we can point to that justifies that.
So I appreciate that. I appreciate Mayor Hancock's letter. I understand where he's coming from. It is a good
possibility, and one that needs to be explored with the appropriate caveats that you have expressed. Thank
you very much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, director. Let's see. Looks like we've got Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. You said that you all had explored what it might take to do a
community land trust or you had not explored that?
CHESSY BRADY: We've spent the last couple of years talking to community land trusts about whether it's
possible to do for-sale units on ground lease land, and generally they say yes, it's possible. What we have
not done is specific-- had anybody evaluate specifically what would it take on this particular property
providing any of the detail, because we don't want to give anybody a leg up. But we believe we've gotten
as much information as we can fairly.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. So what would it take to see that as a path forward? Like what work would that
require?
CHESSY BRADY: We hope and expect that community land trusts will respond to this request, and they
will then be able to put in the work and determine whether it's possible for them to propose for this project.
And based on the conversations that we've had with them and with-- again, with transit agencies-- other
transit agencies, we believe that they hope that they will respond and that it will make sense for them and
that they may be able to offer more affordability than we're requiring.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I know you said it can be difficult to get these things funded, but I wonder if
you all have explored-- maybe it's too early in the process-- how foundations along with the city might be
able to help bring something like a community land trust to fruition.

CHESSY BRADY: Are you suggesting a new community land trust or that we work with a community land
trust?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I mean, there are a number of them in Colorado, and so I wouldn't-- I mean, if you
wanted to create a new one, sure. I'm not helping you with that. But I'm curious, it's more about exploring
with community land trusts and foundations on a funding strategy.
CHESSY BRADY: Well, we would hope that a community land trust would bring that funding partner with
them. And whether it's a foundation or banks, however their financing works in the projects that they're
familiar with doing already.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And then I will just say ditto to Director Tisdale's comments. I prefer-- you know
this, I don't have to tell you-- that I prefer the leasing, particularly because Five Points is historically an
African-American neighborhood, and those numbers have significantly dwindled with the displacement in
that community. And so as best as we are able to keep this parcel available to folks who might have been
displaced and to not be a part of the displacement, I'd really appreciate it.
But the last question-- or maybe it's not the last question. Another question that I have for you, Chessy, you
said the AMI, it's specific for that area in Five Points or is that just the general AMI?
CHESSY BRADY: This is the Denver housing limits-- housing income limits for financing purposes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Great. And then within the RFP, would there be a requirement to-- or could there
be, rather, maybe not would there be. Would there be any opportunity to solicit to those who previously
lived in Five Points and might want to return and solicit to those folks to be able to apply for this program?
CHESSY BRADY: So to be able to-- for the housing, yeah. I think-- part of what we will ask for is how the
developer intends to engage with the community, and I think that would be one way that they could do that,
by advertising the availability of the units to former residents.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And then you all will come back with what after tonight? And when?
CHESSY BRADY: We would come back-- if you approve this action tonight, then we would come back in
a few weeks at the full board meeting for the final approval.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And once you get the final approval, how will we know what is happening in that
process?
CHESSY BRADY: Then we will update you absolutely, and I failed to mention that during the presentation.
So we will keep you updated as it's moving along, as the RFQ is released, as we choose a developer. And
it'll just move along lickety split from there, I'm sure.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. I'm sure of it. All right, Chessy. Thank you so much, I appreciate it.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I don't see any of their hands. A quick follow-up, Chessy. Are you able to do the
RFQ or do we have to consult-- or get a consultant for that? Are you able-- and will you be the one doing
the RFQ?
CHESSY BRADY: We are able to do that, and we are set up to do it and ready to go.
SHELLEY COOK: Excellent. And in regard to some of the questions, it's a competitive process, so you can
structure that so that it's apparent, if they come in at below 80%, that's all the better, that kind of thing? Is
that the sort of thing you do? OK.
CHESSY BRADY: Right.
SHELLEY COOK: And in regard to other concerns, the length of the lease and so forth. So I think-- I know
the city probably is more interested, as you said, in for-sale here. And that evidently reflects the fact that
most of the housing around has been developed as for-rent, is that true?
CHESSY BRADY: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Well, it might be that some people would have a chance to buy in a neighborhood
that they would otherwise be displaced from. So I think it's interesting and I'm kind of excited to see you
moving forward with this, so I'll be supporting the motion. With nothing else, I'll go ahead and call for the
vote. The motion was by Kate Williams and the second was by Lynn Guissinger. Do we have any opposed?
Please say your name.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. I'm opposed. This is Angie.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Anybody else? All right. Looks like we have 12 in favor, one
opposed, and two absent. The person opposed is Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede, and everybody else in
favor with the two directors, Dishell and Buzek, absent. So thank you very much and good luck.
All right. And the final action is the Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail. RTD and CDOT
Commission Cooperation Agreement. And I'll go ahead and come through to that. The recommended action
is for the Board of Directors to authorize the general manager and CEO to execute the cooperation
agreement between Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission and Regional
Transportation District in Colorado Department of Transportation for accomplishment of shared goals-- it's
a cooperation agreement.

So it looks like Bill Van Meter is our presenter. First I need a motion. Anybody out there willing to make the
motion for approval?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Director Davidson.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. A second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second, Whitmore.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and Director Whitmore is second. All righty. Thank you. And Bill Van Meter, please
go ahead while I ground my cat.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Thank you, Chair Cook and directors. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager for Planning. I'm pleased to finally have the opportunity to put in front of you this cooperation
agreement. You first heard about it in April when General Manager and CEO Johnson distributed a draft.
The key tenants of that draft have not changed in the succeeding time, but the surrounding verbiage and
reviews by our potential cooperation agreement partners in this planning cooperation agreement, those
being the Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission and the Colorado Department of
Transportation, have had an opportunity to review and provide input and guidance on it, and our legal staff
have also had that opportunity.
So a couple quick points around that. The first is-- that's not articulated in the Board report on the action.
The first is that we have already been adhering to the core tenants of this cooperation agreement, we being
the three parties. So as RTD staff have been working on the potential Northwest Rail Peak Service Plan,
we have involved local jurisdictional stakeholders as we have informed you.
We have also involved for feedback and input representatives from the Southwest Chief/Front Range
Passenger Rail Commission, as well as from CDOT. We've met with them regularly and hammered out and
worked through a number of potential issues, presuming the Northwest Rail Peak Service Plan were to
proceed forward. So we have a good basis of understanding and have put the tenants of this cooperation
agreement into action.
Second quick note is that the Southwest Chief/Front Range Passenger Rail Commission-- quite a mouthful- at their August meeting authorized the chairman to execute the document as presented presuming the
other parties are also provide their approval. Your first step towards that would presumably be tonight.
And that really kind of highlights a couple of additional points, and in summary beyond that which is
contained in the board package for you this evening. And so I'm happy to try to answer any questions or
receive any comments.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Bill. Anybody have a question for Bill? Comments? OK. Here we have one.
Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I was a little bit concerned when reading through that the funding of this and
responsibilities are somewhat vague. And I was concerned that we're looking at a state-wide rail system
and we're just a part of that within the metro area. And I just wanted to make sure-- and I think you know
this, that our responsibility from a financial standpoint will not expand beyond our mission and our
geographic area.
WILLIAM VAN METER: And Chair Cook, if I may respond.
SHELLEY COOK: Please. Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. Understood. Thank you for those comments and
input. That's a key piece of and intent of the identification of one of the key planning activities, being costsharing, stating that the parties shall work collaboratively to identify mutual benefits to cost savings or
sharing as it pertains to infrastructure and operations improvement, although those haven't been yet made.
And then the other point I would make to that exact point and in terms of protecting all parties' interests is
that the agreement is set to terminate upon completion of all related or relevant planning studies within the
Northwest Alignment Study area. And so it does not extend into any responsibilities for capital investment,
construction, right-of-way acquisition, or operations and maintenance. So I feel confident that our interests
and-- frankly, mutual shared interests between all three parties are covered within this document.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Anything else, Director Catlin? OK. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Bill. So as this commission sort of morphs
into the district February of next year per a bill passed by the legislature, it's said in the memo that we
anticipate something to that effect. That we anticipate to have a similar agreement next year. Is that your
understanding? And would there be any changes that would substantially be different? Because I'm
understanding that we'd have to sign a new agreement next year with the district.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah. So I-- again, Chair Cook, Bill Van Meter, AGM, Planning. Director Rosenthal,
yeah. So that is, from a staff perspective, our common understanding that likely we would need to execute
a new sort of cooperation agreement recognizing the new structure and responsibilities of the district.
The hope and intent of all three parties' staff, two of whom would be theoretically party-- CDOT and RTD,
to a successor agreement is that the construct of this regarding cooperation, collaboration through the
planning effort would remain the same and this would set a good template.
So that is the intent. This sets that basis and that tone. And then the other note that is contained both in the
Board report and in the Senate Bill-- and I'll make sure I get that right-- 21-238 establishing the district is

that that bill specifically also requires the district to work collaboratively with RTD. So this is in alignment
with the state legislative direction to the parties and the parties at a staff level, common understanding
intent going forward.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then-- so you mentioned some financial issues, and I was wondering-- so if the
district does go to the ballot and say-- this is kind of building on also Director Catlin's thought process. So
if we do-- if the district does go to the ballot and say to the voters-- and I believe that it's anybody within
those counties that would be within the line-- the rail line area going from, let's just say from Fort Collins to
Pueblo, would be any county within the rail line alignment.
So would they consult us about-- RTD, rather. Where they consult RTD and say, look, this is the amount
that we're going to be requesting, this is the amount of tax that we're requesting of the voters. Would we
have any consultation with them on that?
WILLIAM VAN METER: It is my understanding-- oh, again, Chair Cook, Bill Van Meter, AGM, Planning. In
brief, yes. In fact, as I recall, part of the Senate Bill 21-238, establishing the district-- the legislation
establishing the district reserves a non-voting seat for RTD on the district. So we will have direct
representation and participation and involvement in the process through a non-voting participatory stance
for lack of a better word.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then my final question is-- so if a measure does go to the voters-- and this is
obviously way into the future, but it's nice to follow this along to connect all the dots just so anybody watching
knows and so all of us know and I know. But-- so is it a majority of voters in that entire region from Pueblo
to Fort Collins who vote the majority to pass this measure? Or is it within each county today we need a
majority?
So like we would need a majority in Denver, we need a majority in, say, Boulder hopefully to go through
there, a majority of-- in El Paso County, a majority-- does that makes sense? Or is it a majority in all of
those people put together, a majority of all of those?
WILLIAM VAN METER: It makes sense. Unfortunately I just do not recall either the tabor and/or legislative- I don't have an answer to that.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just on that last point, I believe-- and I'm not really
a lawyer here, I just look like one. It's a district-wide vote. So the entire district gets to call it. So if there's
an outlier county that doesn't want to, they're stuck with the decision of the majority.

A comment and a question. Comment. The agreement itself its pretty clear that it does not extend beyond
our district or beyond the area described as the Northwest Rail Alignment. It's pretty specific in saying it
only applies to that. So it does not purport to obligate us in any way or anything else. It's just relative to the
Northwest Rail Alignment. And I think that's an important point to keep in mind.
The question is, does our plan or at least contemplated $8 million study that we have talked about for
Northwest Rail in fact serve to satisfy or at least address some of the cooperation and planning that is
described in this cooperative agreement?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair Cook, AGM-- AGM Bill Van Meter. Simple one-word answer is yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Anything else, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No, ma'am. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm sorry?
SHELLEY COOK: I said please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks. Just a quick question. And it's more of a process question. It seems like, to
Director Tisdale's point, that this document should come after we agree as a board that we're going to move
forward with the feasibility study. But I'm assuming that there's a reason that it's not in that sequence. And
so Mr. Van Meter, if you'd like to talk about that, I'd appreciate it.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Sure. One is that as we-- the timing was such that it would actually precede a
potential Northwest Rail Peak Service Plan study.
The intent being that even from the point that the Department of Transportation Commission were working
on their plan, their service development plan, and RTD were working on its potential Northwest Rail Peak
Service Plan, that we would be collaborating from the very start and adhering to these tenets, which is why
I made that point that we have been collaboratively doing that. Such that it would give clear direction even
before approval or procurement on any of these projects and then throughout the planning phase.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And Madam Chair, if I may just add on something that Mr. Van Meter's comments, if I
may?

SHELLEY COOK: Of course, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair and Director Lewis. Yes, to the point that Mr. Van
Meter made, when this was first broached, this was some time back, I believe, in late January, early
February that Mr. Van Meter and I participated in a meeting with representatives from Front Range
Passenger Rail.
And to the point that he raised, it was showcasing that we were open to work in an amicable fashion. It just
so happens with the time frame that now we are on parallel tracks-- no pun intended-- with this impending
PEL study that will be brought back to this body. And so I just wanted to qualify and clarify that the intent
was to showcase that we were committed to working in a collaborative fashion. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's so helpful. Thank you so much. That's my only question.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Any other questions or comments? OK. Seeing none, I'll go ahead and proceed to
the vote. We had a motion by Director Davidson and a second by Director Whitmore. Do I have any opposed
to this motion? Anybody opposed to the motion? Please say your name or raise your hand so I can call on
you.
OK. Seeing none, looks like we've got that passing unanimously with 13 present voting yes, nobody voting
no, and two people absent. All right. Thank you, Bill Van Meter. I know that's been a months-long effort,
and yours and Debra Johnson's work on it is greatly appreciated. Thank you very much.
OK. So we are past the recommended action items. We've got three discussion items. And I'll go ahead
and turn it over to staff for those. The first is the Colfax Bus Rapid Transit. And is that you, Bill Van Meter,
again?
BRIAN WELCH: Good evening, Chair Cook and members of the Board, it's Brian Welch.
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry about that.
BRIAN WELCH: I was waiting for Mr. Van Meter, but I'll just jump right in. Good evening, Chair Cook and
members of the Board, Brian Welch, Senior Manager of Planning Technical Services. Wanted to give the
Board an update on our partnership with the City and County of Denver to enhance and improve bus
operations on East Colfax. Talk about a project that has some history. I've been working on this one myself
personally for about 10 years now, and to get the Board up to speed.
The PowerPoint presentation that's included in your board materials is a good one from the City and County
of Denver and it provides a lot of good background on the project and all the numbers in that. So I'm not
going to spend time on that. But in a nutshell, Colfax, as you know, is among the highest corridors for

ridership in our district, period, bus and rail. It's consistently been up there, and it's been very stable as well
during our recent ridership loss as well.
We're now in the initial stages of the Federal Transit Administration Capital Investment Grant Program for
Colfax for the Center Running project. Many of you know, RTD has a long and very successful history with
the Capital Investment Grant Program. We've had a string of project awards over time. In fact, we're
undefeated on the CIG program. Every time we've applied, we've received a grant.
This includes the most recently the Southeast Rail Extension. You'll recall, that's a small start's single-year
construction grant that we got. When the FasTracks program was drafted in 2004, we identified a series of
projects that would be good candidates, and in fact, they all did receive funding from this program.
RTD in the Denver Metro Area, we're the sole recipient of capital funding through the Capital Investment
Grant Program from FTA and the State of Colorado. The only other people who can receive money through
the program are RFTA, and they built VelociRFTA using that in the Roaring Fork Valley, and the other is
transport in Fort Collins with their Max Bus Rapid Transit.
So as the sole designated recipient, and with Denver's decision not to pursue that designation at least at
this time, RTD will act as the project sponsor, and Denver will be a subrecipient. RTD, we've entered into
similar arrangements with many of our local agency partners to provide a conduit for federal funds but never
for a project of this magnitude.
This month, RTD and Denver are going to enter the first step of the program which is known as Project
Development. Small Starts is a-- the smaller version of capital investment grants where you just have two
steps, Small Starts and then engineering, and then you get a grant. But to facilitate the arrangement, what
we anticipate happening after submitting this request letter to enter into the program would be a
memorandum of understanding. This would outline the basic framework for the working arrangement
between the agencies, and it would, in fact, provide the basis for us to enter into more formal
intergovernmental agreements that would be before the Board in the future.
These would define responsibilities more clearly, including how we will work together during project
development, project design, engineering, the NEPA process. It would then talk about later, we develop
another IGA probably that would cover maintenance responsibilities and how Denver would pay for those.
Notice how I said that. And then finally, the way that operations would occur during revenue service.
RTD has not made any financial commitment to this project from a capital point of view. As you know, there
is no money programmed in your mid-term financial plan for Colfax Bus Rapid Transit. We have agreed
that we would at a minimum continue to provide the operations in conjunction with the revenue service at
the run board closest to when they anticipate beginning the project opening. But beyond that, everything is
subject to negotiation and further discussion.

So that was just a quick way of getting the Board up to speed up to speed on where we are right now, and
I would welcome any questions or comments. It's actually a very exciting step for Denver to be back in the
Capital Investment Grant Program. FTA will tell you that it's not a competitive program, but it is, because if
your project does not rate highly, you're not going to get funded.
And across the United States, numerous bus rapid transit projects have recently received funding. I'm sure
that in your communications you hear about this all the time. So we're once again in the queue, and I think
that's a great moment for us in our partnership with Denver. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Looks like we have a question, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Welch. This looks to be an exciting project
to have greater mobility for the number one route, as you indicated. So-- bus route, rather. And so is there- has there-- will there be any consulting and input by small businesses that are along Colfax? How they
will be impacted by this? Because this will probably impact parking, potentially, and-- what will their input
be?
BRIAN WELCH: Thank you, Chair Cook. Yes, the good question, director. This project has a extraordinarily
extensive outreach that's already occurred with the various business entities along the corridor. Since it's
center-running, it will have the advantage of being, in some ways, less disruptive than a project that was
against the curb.
Now it will have impacts obviously on the corridor, but I think some of the horror stories you've heard about
of projects that caused major disruption, we don't anticipate that this would have that kind of an impact
because they can keep most of the work of out of disrupting access to each individual business. But Denver
is doing a fantastic job even so far of addressing the very issue that you just raised, so thank you for that
question.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And so you brought up the issue of it being center-running. So if somebody
went from, say, the sidewalk to get to the median where they can wait for a bus and then board the bus, I
guess my concern would be-- and I'm sure you've looked at this to make sure that they're not hit by an
oncoming car and not think-- so somebody-- especially somebody with disabilities, we need to make sure
that there's sufficient time to cross, that the lights are metered in such a way that they can actually access
these islands. And that there's sufficient room to maneuver, especially for someone in a wheelchair.
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, director, the answer is yes. All that will be very carefully evaluated.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And then-- so I understand that the stations will be approximately three or four blocks
between-- so on each side. So if you're in the middle, it could be three and a half-- three or four blocks this
way or three or four blocks this way, which is about a third of a mile. And as we know from-- and not to be
bring up a sore spot, but like the bus 520 right now that we're looking at, the issue of distance that it takes
to go to a stop-- because there won't be any more locals. It's only going to be BRT.

So we need to make sure that that is accessible for someone-- I mean, a third of a mile might be quite a
bit. I mean-- or I guess it would be half of a third of a mile, is that right?
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah. And this is a very good question, director. This is still Brian Welch, Senior Manager,
Planning Technical Services. The City and County of Denver has actually calculated any additional walk
time that would relate to any potential passenger at our current stops and it's very, very small.
So they've actually figured out that with the new stop spacing as part of the BRT Project, there would hardly
be any measurable change for any particular person's distance from their current point to where they would
access our system. So that's been very carefully evaluated as well. Because other people have asked the
same question who don't want to lose the proximity of service as it currently exists.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And so this would be going all the way from the Convention Center to Colfax, and
then down Colfax all the way through to 225, is that right?
BRIAN WELCH: That's right.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. And so there would be no difference between when Colfax goes into Aurora.
That's seamless, is that right? And so you're working-- so seamless between Colfax and Aurora?
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah. I'm smiling, director. This is-- that's not the case. It will switch from center-running
at the Denver-Aurora border to side-running. Aurora has chosen not to embrace the center-running concept
at this time, and so the project will have a transition state at that-- to go to the sides of the street instead of
the center.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: But if it goes to the sides of the street, then that would mow down all the parking spots
for those small businesses in Aurora, is that right?
BRIAN WELCH: No. Because the stops are already there. So we're essentially substituting the current
stops with a highly-enhanced level boarding thematic consistent theme for the bus rapid transit-- off-vehicle,
fair payment and all that. But not center-running.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: But would that slow down the bus, then, if it goes to Aurora?
BRIAN WELCH: Well, the answer to the question, director, is it's ideal to be in the center and to be exclusive.
That's where you get the most bang for your buck in a transit corridor. As soon as you get into mixed traffic,
you're going to slow down the service. So it will not operate as efficiently as it does in the City and County
of Denver, but there will be other measures taken in Aurora with huge-- what we call a jump as well as
transit signal priority and other treatments that will enhance the overall service, but it will still be in mixed
traffic in Aurora.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: And I have two more left. I'm going to go quickly. So the area that the BRT will be
physically on, the physical-- where the buses are running on, is that going to be raised above street level
like six inches? Or is just going to be at street level, maybe painted?
BRIAN WELCH: That's a question that I'll follow up on. I believe that there's going to be some adjustments
made in the roadway to make sure we can have a level boarding profile. I'm not sure exactly how that will
play out in Denver and Aurora, but I can follow up and give you a bit more information on how that will affect
the distances that you've just referred to.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. And then the last question-- it's going to sound fairly trivial, but for particularly the
LGBTQ community, when we have a Pride parade or something, just want to see-- so is it still amenable
for Colfax to be for parades and protests and things like that to where it's not going to-- when we have the
BRT and the islands and everything, is it going to be breaking up? Or can we still have parades and protests
and things like that?
BRIAN WELCH: Parades and protests will still be possible in the center-running as well. There's been a lot
of discussion already about the distance between the curb and the street level, of course, because we want
to make sure it's safe for everybody who's going to use the system, including cyclists putting their bikes on
the vehicles, the disabled community, and everybody else. So that's going to be very carefully evaluated to
ensure that it's a safe environment for all the types of activities that currently occur on Colfax.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Right. And what I mean by that is obviously the buses are not running when there's a
parade or protest. I'm just saying, there's islands and it's raised and-- if you've got to go around and
everything, it's just kind of breaks up the dynamic of a parade or a protest if they have to go around the
BRT area.
BRIAN WELCH: Right.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: That's why it also lends it-- the question lends itself to, is it going to be raised or not?
So anyway—
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah. If you think of the way the mall-- yeah. The way the mall shuttle works with the-how the-- that still enables a lot of lively activity to occur when we're not running our service out there. You
can envision the same type of environment on Colfax.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, thank you. And that's all I have. And thank you for entertaining all my
questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, and one thing—
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It's also in my district.

SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I'm glad to give that. But one thing I would remind everybody on these discussion
items, we'll have plenty of chances to talk to staff either offline or whatnot, especially when we've got four
meetings in a night. So just keeping that in mind would be appreciated. Looks like we got Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to clarify. Director Rosenthal or maybe-- Mr.
Welch, you said there's not going to be local service. So no 15-- just to 15L-- like how the stops are put in
place?
BRIAN WELCH: No, no, no. We'll still have-- we'll still have a combination of the L and the local service.
They'll both be running. It'll be a combined service.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And that's why you talked about it not having significant changes to the amount of
time that folks might be walking, because those aren't changing?
BRIAN WELCH: That's correct, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. The second question I have for you is-- it's included in packet page-on packet page, excuse me, 126. It's the 15L Improvement Project. And it's my understanding that the BRT
and the 15L Improvement Project-- 15L Improvement Projects are separate projects, the BRT and the-- is
that-- am I misunderstanding that?
BRIAN WELCH: This still Brian Welch, Senior Manager, Planning Technical Services. Yes, the 15L shelters
that you see being installed right now, that's a separate project. The plan is that when the center-running
BRT project comes along, those shelters have been designed so that they can be relocated to other places
within our district.
So they're modular in that we always knew that this would happen, and we didn't-- and we wanted to make
sure that the investment could be preserved.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, I really appreciate you saying that, because that was the next question I
had. I think about the airplane graveyard, and I'm like, are we just like throwing a bunch of our shelter
investments into a graveyard of some sort? So I thank you for that clarity. And then the center-running, and
you said that that would change once you got into Aurora. And I wonder-- also to Aurora, but on the other
side of Colfax. What is it, Lakewood? Help me.
BRIAN WELCH: Correct.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. It would change then?
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah. Yeah, the primary center-running limits are-- they're from Broadway to Yosemite.
And then it'll still be a BRT concept for further-- at either end, but that's-- it's about-- it's 9.9 miles roughly
with the center-running being a portion of that. And so the transitions will take place at either end.

SHONTEL LEWIS: So that would take-- that would require a different fleet vehicle, right?
BRIAN WELCH: No, it won't. It'll be designed so that the same fleet can be used for the entire route.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. And the final question is, is there any research to suggest that people might get
used to center-running, and then they get off in Lakewood or Aurora and then there's a behavior change
and that's not good for RTD? I just want to make sure folks are safe.
BRIAN WELCH: There's a lot of experience in North America with center-running projects that do have
these transitions, and we'll rely on the lessons learned from those to deploy them here in our project.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Do you have any examples of where-- of center-running-- any examples with the centerrunning corridors-- excuse me-- where people are actually needing to get off of a bus potentially as they're
changing jurisdictions into a non center-running?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, and I can share those with the Board. We'll get you some-- we'll follow up and give
you some of those, because Denver has looked at and researched that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. That would be wonderful. That's it.
BRIAN WELCH: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Looks like I have Director Davidson. Please.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Welch. Cool project, it's exciting.
Thanks for the update. Just a quick question now. Recognizing this isn't in the financial plan and so forth
yet, have we started thinking about the fleet and what that would look like? And does that overlap with other
projects on other corridors? Maybe it's way too early for that.
BRIAN WELCH: Thank you for the question, director. It's not too early in that that has already-- that
discussion and that investigation has already begun. And so the fleet that's necessary for that is going to
be evaluated within the context of RTD's upcoming fleet purchases and where we are in the lifecycle of
vehicles and the types of vehicles. So that will all be included as part of the application for funding, of
course. And yeah, you're right. You do have to start thinking about fleet purchases very early in the process,
so we are.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Any insights on where we're headed with what the fleet would be and what the vehicles
would be?

BRIAN WELCH: Yeah. There's already been a designed vehicle that we're using that we've selected. It's
one that's running now that's a 60-foot articulated bus. And we can get you more information, actually, on
where we are on that. I can share that with the Board as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Appreciate it.
BRIAN WELCH: You're welcome.
SHELLEY COOK: A lot of interest in this one. Thank you, Brian Welch.
BRIAN WELCH: You're welcome.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Moving on. RTD Board redistricting process, if I could say it. Quick update on that.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Indeed, Chair Cook. It is Bill Van Meter this time and I'm here.
SHELLEY COOK: I didn't want to hazard a guess.
WILLIAM VAN METER: There you go. So this will be a quick update. It appears that I'm sharing my screen.
Yes? Awesome. So you've heard about this a couple of times before. It's actually becoming real at this
point. So I wanted to come back to you and update the collective body as to the Board redistricting process
and particularly regarding some recent developments.
Good news, progress forward and an update on the schedule. Every 10 years, the director districts, the 15
seeded members of the-- and elected members of the RTD Board, your districts need to be reviewed and
reapportioned based on population. That redistricting map has to be adopted by the Board before March
15 of next year, otherwise state legislative service agencies will create that.
So Board Chair has established an ad hoc Redistricting Committee, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, and she is
appointed Directors Broom and Whitmore to that committee. We'll be-- we're planning on meeting for the
first time next month in September to embark on the
Effort. We have also engaged the services of Farnsworth Group who went through the same process 10
years ago in support of the RTD Board and staff in terms of making the current district boundaries and the
modifications necessary for that. So through a competitive process, Farnsworth was, again, selected to
help us through that process.
So we have the Census data coming in, and in a good enough shape to start the process. We have a
consultant team to help us do the analytics on it, and we have an ad hoc committee. A reminder here of
some of the key guidelines that we'll have going into this process and that we'll be discussing with the
committee. Also a reminder that we will be speaking with each Board member. The committee will be-- to
get your input and your thoughts regarding redistricting.

And then finally, here's the draft schedule to take us from today through review, evaluation and discussion
of alternative for district boundaries, and leading to a recommendation in January and a final review and
approval by February of next year in advance of that March deadline.
So things are tight, but they are aligned and the chess Pieces. Are in place to allow us to meet the legislative
mandates. That concludes my presentation, Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. It looks like we have one question anyway. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Not that I'm looking for the work, and I promise, I'm
not, but regarding the committee that has been appointed, is there a lot of potential that there is a perception
of a conflict of interest If you don't have only term-limited directors on that committee? In other words, to
have a director on a committee adjusting the boundaries of his district might, in the minds of some, create
at least a potential conflict of interest? And might it not be better to have those persons be term-limited
directors? That's my question.
SHELLEY COOK: Any thought about that? I'm not sure if this goes to staff or Chair Rivera-Malpiede or—
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, if I might. I like to ask our general counsel because I asked
that specific question. Ms. Snyder, are you on the line?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair, and yes, we did discuss this issue, Director Tisdale.
I'm happy to speak with you offline if that's helpful [INAUDIBLE] with that solution.
SHELLEY COOK: You're really kind of faint, at least for me.
MELANIE SNYDER: Oh, pardon me. Is that a little bit better?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
MELANIE SNYDER: Oh. Yes. I'm happy to speak with you, Director Tisdale, offline. But yes, Chair RiveraMalpiede did reach out and we did have a conversation about the selection of the two directors.
SHELLEY COOK: And it was your conclusion that from a legal standpoint or—
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. That [INAUDIBLE] did select the two that were selected. But it is permissible.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair, I couldn't hear any of that.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. We could ask general counsel to repeat. She indicated that the topic did come up
that our chair reached out to her, and from a legal standpoint anyway, it didn't seem to present a problem.
Did I paraphrase that properly, general counsel? Could you weigh in or try to adjust your audio?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair. I apologize. Hopefully you can hear me. Yes, that what you just
said is accurate.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, that clears it up.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale, anything else?
DOUG TISDALE: No ma'am, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think Director Whitmore was maybe answering the question. So if he was, I'll provide
him the floor.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I'll do that. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No answer. Go ahead, Director Lewis, that's fine.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I do have a few questions. This is a committee that I expressed interest in.
And so I'm curious as to-- similar to Director Tisdale's, if there was any conversation or discussion around
establishing an independent redistricting commission that maybe isn't made up a board of directors. I'll stop
there and then I'll ask the second part of the question. Primarily of board of directors.
SHELLEY COOK: Anybody-- Chair or Bill, any—
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah, Director Cook, this is AGM Planning, Bill Van Meter again. And not that I am
aware of. This is the template that has been used in the past and successfully. So-- not that I personally
am aware of.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Is there-- and this might not be a question for you. It might be a question for Melanie. Is
there an opportunity to change that?
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, if I may. Hopefully you can hear, but I apologize for my camera. That
would be up to the chair's discretion, since an ad hoc committee. And she has the authority to appoint the
members of this committee.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: [INAUDIBLE].
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, if I might.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. So when we look at all the committees for the entire year, there
are several of them. The ad hoc committee for the redistricting happens once every 10 years. And I just
implemented the traditional 10-year cycle that had been in place for as long as that I know has been in
existence, and I will refer to Ms. McManus. But I was not under the impression that it couldn't be changed.
It just is the template that had been used historically and has been used successfully. And so that's kind of
the premise on which I was working on. But Ms. McManus, do you have anything that you can add to that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. I mean, the Board can take themselves out of that decision-making if they
choose. This has never been questioned before. But if the Board decides that they either want staff or
someone from the outside to make these decisions for them and bring it forward, then that would be
something that you as a board would have to decide.
I didn't get the impression that any of the Board members wanted to give up some of the decision-making
of this in terms of working with the ad hoc committee on what their preferences are once we get a better
understanding of what the district looks like as a whole and what the changes might be.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I wasn't aware that you surveyed the entire board, and so forgive me for that lack of
information. It wasn't necessarily to take decisions away from the Board, but to ask if there was a-- if there's
an opportunity for an independent commission that might be able-- that this might be made up of.
That could be, for example, we've had discussions about how we can get our CAC more involved. That it
could be our CAC. I don't know, I'm not making suggestions, I'm just questioning if there's an opportunity
to implement change.

SHELLEY COOK: It seems to me, if I may butt in, it seems like it's-- as it was at the state level-- legislative
or policy item. So I think we as board members could carry something. If there was support for it, then see
about carrying it through. I would suggest it's probably too late for this cycle. I'd ask staff about that, but I
understand that we all appreciated the fact that they were seeking input from the Board members. And so
far as I know, nobody had objected to that piece. But anyway, so forgive me for weighing in right there. I
just—
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm not objecting. And I just want to clarify, it's not an objective-- it's not an objection, it's
an inquiry. I'm simply asking, but you all are responding as though I'm asking you to change the process,
and that's not-- I'm just asking if the process can be changed. And so it sounds like from what Melanie has
responded is that it can be. The intention is not to take any power or influence away from any individual
board member, but to simply ask if there is an opportunity to be able to bring more folks to be a part of the
conversation.
So maybe I'll ask this differently. In the proposal, I did not see an opportunity for public input and
transparency for the redistricting, process, and so I'm curious of how we might be involving the public in
this process.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Bill Van Meter, can you address that if that's already something contemplated in the
process or as the consultant has done?
WILLIAM VAN METER: So the key opportunities for public engagement involvement would be during the
committee meetings and board meetings when we keep the Board apprised as progress throughout, and
the Board will have the opportunity to hear the recommendations in January and hear them and receive
them and act on them in February in the board meeting. So the only real public engagement or involvement
anticipated in the current construct is through the formal board process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: The formal board process?
WILLIAM VAN METER: For consideration of any action or item through committees, and then board action
on recommendation that has forwarded out of committee.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I see. Thank you. I appreciate that. One of the things that I wasn't quite clear on is on
packet page 148, it says, directed districts redrawn only a population difference between any two exceeds
threshold established by the Board and what that threshold-- if it's already established, it sounds like there's
already a process in place that has been tried and true, and so I'm curious as to what that threshold is.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair, sorry, Bill Van Meter, AGM, Planning. So there is no legislative-- state
legislative set amount of population variation or difference between districts. The state itself uses 5% plus
or minus when it redistricts its house and senate districts. And our past practice, though I'm not aware that
it has ever been formally adopted or approved by the Board of Directors, is to follow those same state
legislative plus or minus 5% deviation between the most and least populous district.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Is it fair to assume that that is the process that you all followed previously? That
percentage? That 5% plus or minus?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Correct.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. And then it sounds like you've already been in conversation with the consultant
that you'll be working with. How often should we expect as a board to receive updates, understanding that
the committee-- the ad hoc committee is two board members, and so those meetings will be posted. And
so I'm curious as the Board of Directors how we might remain abreast on the-- over the course of this
project.
WILLIAM VAN METER: That would be at the will of this body of the Board. So we can attempt to provide
updates as frequently as the ad hoc committee and the Chair and the Board deem appropriate.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, Dr.-- or, Dr. Broom-- Director Broom, I've got several other people. Is this germane
to that point?
BOB BROOM: Yeah. I was just going to say, why not just have a monthly update at the Board meetings?
Because there's not that many months involved before it's all over with.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. That would be fine with me. Would then help, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. Thank you, Director Broom.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I've had a lot of thoughts in regard to Director Tisdale's
point, very eloquently put forth. The reason that would be to check with our legal counsel was that very
issue. So I appreciate you bringing that up, Director Tisdale. I'm not sure that I will continue on this role as
a director that is up for election next year and possible tweak to the district that I reside in, and the effect
on those in the district that may want to run. And I'm not sure whether I'll run or not yet, that decision has
not been made.
But I think the perception there is a little strange, to Director Tisdale's point. So I'm going to have to give a
little more thought on that, and I regret that I haven't spoken to the Chair about that. But I think that we
might be able to do better as far as the Board rule on that and the influence that would be perceived.

I still think the Board has every right to continue in that process. It's been a good process over the years,
but I want it to look squeaky clean and be squeaky clean. So just the thought-- and I apologize to the Chair
for that, but I think it was needing to be noted on the record. So thank you for the time, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. I appreciate that. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so there was some discussion on some of the
requirements for the districts as they change. So population as I see is one of the factors. And another one
is to try to keep directors within the districts in which they are currently in. But what about other issues that,
for example, on the state legislative and the congressional districts, communities of interest?
So are those included? Because I didn't see that on the presentation. Is that in statute or in any rule that
we should try to keep communities of interest together?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair Cook, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM, Planning.
SHELLEY COOK: Please.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Not to my understanding or knowledge as to the state legislation pertaining to RTD
district.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Sorry for my cat. Any follow-up there Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Just that my hope is that they would try to look at that and try to include that.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm sorry for my cat. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: You could make kitty kitty noises and see if that helped. If Director Whitmore is
uncomfortable, I am not up for re-election and not re-electable. I'd be happy to step in and help. So just put
that on the books.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks for making that aware. I don't see any of their hands, and I would just say, I know
that the Chair selected the two members because I believe we can all say we can attest to their neutrality
and their integrity and so forth. So I think it was-- and I'm comfortable with the two. But I also understand
the concern that Director Whitmore, for example, may have with regard to as-- how that might appear-- or
his upcoming election.
But I would just say, I have no doubt that you would carry out that function with complete integrity and
forthrightness. So anyway, that's enough for that item, I would think. And pretty soon I'm going to mute and
then feed my cat. But we have one more discussion item, and that is Reimagine RTD. And I'll go ahead
and ask staff to pick back up on that. Is that, again, Bill or Brian or Bill Sirois?

WILLIAM VAN METER: It is—
SHONTEL LEWIS: Before we move on, I just want to make sure we've concluded that conversation. Are
you saying that we'll take this conversation-- that you all, not me-- will take this conversation offline and
determine who will make up those-- who will be the members of that ad hoc committee? Or are you saying
that you're going-- that you all are going to stick with those placements and the process is moved forward?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, if I might. I will say to you that I will have a conversation with
Director Whitmore, and if he chooses to not be in that position, then I would appoint someone who is not
up for reelection next year.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And then the second question, just to clarify the process, I, along with other directors,
have asked about the process specifically, and I'm curious if we are sticking with the process as it is
currently presented to us.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, as is. Only because that is then the plan and how we move forward with
the timeline that we are working on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right, I really appreciate it. I do think that we ever really unique opportunity to make
sure that we have true representation as we are looking at redistricting for RTD. I don't know about you all,
but I've heard from different constituents that oftentimes they question what the methodology is-- or has
been to come up with the districts, because they feel that there are different needs for different communities.
And sometimes those two communities-- or different communities aren't always on the same page, and it's
my understanding that that's the intent of redistricting, is not to dilute folks into have-- I'm sorry?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I'm listening to you and I'm agreeing with you, what you're saying.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. To-- I'm sorry, you made me lose my train of thought. But I would just-- it just
seems like a missed opportunity.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, I would say, too, that it is timely and topical now. I mean, there's been a change at
the state level in how the districts are drawn. So I think it's important to bring it up. Just agree that we're up
against the constraint of the timeline where we must adopt. So for the current time-- I'm glad you're bringing
up those issues and they bear thinking about, but I'm just worried that we don't have the time to make
significant changes. Maybe two parts about how we're updated, how it's brought to the public, whether or
not there's input, et cetera.
Looks like we now have other hands on this. Can I—
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks.

SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Director Davidson?
SHONTEL LEWIS: --onto that, Director Cook-- or Chair Cook. Is one of the-- I'm not-- I'm no expert in any
way, shape, or form, but it's my understanding that the state actually extended their deadline because they
found it to be important to invest the time on the front end to get the meaningful change in representation
that they believe that their constituents deserve. And so it might be an opportunity for us to explore as well.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank. And Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Actually, that's a good lead-in to my question, Director Lewis. And thanks to
everybody for all the comments on this, it's a good thing to be thinking about. What is the timeline and its
flexibility? And I may have missed this, and my apologies if I did. How is that timeline set? Is that imposed
on us or is that RTD policy?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair, this is AGM, Planning, Bill Van Meter. It's set in-- by state law, and that time
frame requires that we have a redistricting map done by March of next year or this-- yeah. Or the state-what is it? The Colorado Legislative Council with assistance from the Director of Research-- Leg Council
and Director of the Office of Legislative Legal Services will oversee the redistricting if that deadline is not
met.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So it needs to be done-- thank you very much. It needs to be-- just to-- quick-- it needs
to be done by March, and our current timeline for ourselves completing it with the current plan as is is which
date again? My apologies if I missed that.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah, this is AGM, Planning, Bill Van Meter again. So our current schedule has us
bringing the final recommendation to the Board in February. I will note that the time is tight, as we informed
the Board previously. Delay in Census tabulations and reporting have kind of put us this decennial cycle
between a rock and a hard place in terms of schedule.
We do-- we are in a good place and believe the work that we need to achieve by February, March 15,
February for your action can be accomplished, that we have the data we need from the Census Bureau.
But it was delayed for a number of reasons and being made available and for our purposes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Thanks for taking the time. Appreciate it.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUSSINGER: Yeah, thanks. I have a couple of thoughts based on the current process that's going
on with the legislature and congress and-- it's mostly the legislature, is seeing the maps that came out and
the public process that's going on, I would hope that we will see the map that you propose well along the

way before it comes to us as a final or near to final, because I think that there's some good questions raised
today and there'll be good input from the Board towards those.
And I also think that Director Rosenthal mentioned the communities of interest. That's the standard for the
new redistricting commission. And while we're not required to do it, it sort of addresses some of the issues,
I think, maybe that Director Lewis is raising, and I would encourage our committee to look at that issue as
well. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin? Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. It was my understanding a while back that the ad hoc committee will be
meeting with each director individually to make sure that some of their concerns are addressed and are
heard. And also, Mr. Van Meter, the consultant that we're using, do they take into account some of the
demographic data that are out of the census to try and get to the points that Directors Rosenthal and Lewis
mentioned about trying to keep communities together? Is that information part of their scope of work? To
look at those demographic data?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair, Bill Van Meter again. So in response to your first comment or question,
Director Catlin, yes, it is part of the plan and direction for the ad hoc committee or members thereof to meet
and have discussions with each Board member regarding this process and to receive their input and
thoughts regarding the process. So that's the answer to that.
Whatever demographic available-- demographic data is available from the Census Bureau as we enter into
this certainly can be made available. However, the legislative direction is simply districts of-- I can't recall
the exact wording, but approximately roughly substantially the same population representing districts of
roughly substantial.
So anything beyond that I don't think is against that. I think it's valuable-- it would be valuable information
and could be considered. It's not part of the current scope. The current scope is designed and predicated
to those core principles, the 5% deviation, jurisdictional lines, avoiding irregular boundaries, border
precincts, and keeping current districts in their existing districts, so those sorts of guidelines. Also taking
into account that feedback that we get from conversations with each Board member.
SHELLEY COOK: But there is a lot there, and I'm hoping our ad hoc committee can take up some of the
thoughts and recommendations and hopefully be able to the extent possible within the time frame in the
scope of work be able to address some of that. And I apologize for trying to rush past that-- distracted with
my cat, but it was-- it really is an important point right now. So thank you for stopping things, Director Lewis.
OK. Are we done there?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Cook.

SHELLEY COOK: No, thank you. OK. So we have one final update, and it's on Reimagine. So go ahead,
please, Bill Van Meter. Or Bill Sirois.
WILLIAM VAN METER: OK, no, it's me, and I had re-muted myself, and this is Bill Van Meter, AGM,
Planning. Bill Sirois and Brian Welch. Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit-Oriented Communities, and
Brian Welch, Senior Manager, Planning Technical Services, are here in case I need a lifeline. And
recognizing the hour, there's just a few key points in this PowerPoint presentation and update regarding
Reimagine RTD that I'd like to highlight.
So one is an update on the Rebuilding Service Subgroup. Informed the Board in previous updates about
this Rebuilding Service Subgroup. They have met. They met one time in June, and we discussed with them
factors impacting our capability for rebuilding service. And those factors are in close alignment with the
Board-adopted guiding principles or Reimagine RTD.
Delving into rebuilding service topic a little bit more and the discussions we're having with the subgroup
and want to daylight with you, we're working to manage expectations for rebuilding service. Some key
themes for these discussions are valuing employees' health, safety, and well-being, equity, and one item
that I'd like to delve into a little bit more detail, and that's recognition of RTD's current financial uncertainty.
Of importance, note that our current midterm projections are that, even with the one-time federal revenues
such as CRSA and ARPA funds, we can only sustainably support roughly 85% of pre-pandemic service
levels through 2026. Also recall that there were significant asset management state of good referral-- state
of good repair deferrals from the 2021 budget which further contributes to that pre-existing backlog that we
have had for a number of years, important asset management projects that are really needed to keep our
vehicles running and our lights on.
So these are key factors that we're talking with our rebuilding service group on and other parties as well in
terms of managing expectations for what RTD can accomplish moving forward. Of course, an additional
consideration is our understanding of our current ridership trends, which while increasing-- slowly-- are still
being influenced by the pandemic telework and the continued weakness in our traditional AM and PM
commute markets, a topic that was discussed during our earlier meeting on communications meeting.
So all of these factors combined lead to an understanding that not all pre-pandemic routes can or will be
restored to prior levels of service. The Reimagine RTD, RTD team, and the Rebuilding Service Subgroup
will be looking at system optimization opportunities as services are rebuilt over time, considering changes
in customer demand, workforce availability, social equity, and our financial constraints.
So as we move forward with these analyses, we're going to build on the work done by our consultants and
service development to date, focusing on our core services, those 70% to 75% of our services that were
performing well pre-pandemic, and most of which provide a critical service to our customers throughout the
pandemic as well.

We'll be looking at revisions to our family of service, associate update-- associated updates and changes
to our service standards with a focus on network integrity. This work is not happening immediately. It's
going to continue through the late summer, fall, and into the coming winter with the service optimization,
plan recommendations being-- are set-- which are set to be considered by you, the Board, along with the
Reimagine RTD and mobility plan for the future in early 2022.
While we recognize these near-to-mid-term constraints, we are also looking to identify opportunities for
partnerships for RTD to grow as a mobility integrator, to support FlexRide operations, and explore other
micromobility and mobility as a service options in the near future with the parallel efforts of the mobility plan
for the future.
And we're going to be taking a deeper dive into this topic. This was a tickler or teaser today. This rebuilding
service and our system optimization plan had the September 14 Board study session. So this is a teaser.
As I note, the recommendations will continue to be developed through this late summer, fall, winter, and
will be coming back to that in early 2022 for consideration. And we'll be having that opportunity at study
session on the 14th of September and in other venues and updates throughout.
I wanted to highlight and try to dwell on that for a second. I kind of rushed through some key points there,
but that was in the interest of time. I also wanted to update you on where we're heading regarding-- so that
was kind of rebuilding service. That was Rebuilding Service Subgroup, and the System Optimization Plan.
Parallel process is the mobility plan for the future, planning future states.
And a key focus on that-- so looking at scenario planning. What questions will we be-- will this mobility plan
for the future process answer? And the time frame for that is addressed on this slide. Want to talk a little bit
about scenario development. Various driving forces. High or low impact from each of those can lead to
definition of various future potential scenarios. And we've been talking with our Technical Working Group
and Advisory Committee from a future mobility needs and trends perspective about what scenarios make
sense for us to analyze in a scenario analysis moving forward.
We have a tool-- the consultant team has a tool that will help us do the sorts of analyses. It's called the
Exploratory Modeling and Analysis Tool or EMAT. Has input such as service levels, workforce, funding
availability, telework from home, micromobility, parking costs, both at our park and rides, potentially, and at
destinations. And it provides a whole list of potential-- not potential, but outputs for various assumptions on
the inputs. What do the outputs look like in a range of reasonableness?
So in discussions with the Technical Working Group and Advisory Committee, they requested and
suggested scenarios to be evaluated through that tool that are around those various inputs. Service levels
as a surrogate for funding. The surrogate for workforce availability, federal and state policy, and climate
impact. Higher levels having one set of potential outcomes, lower another set, and with a range of potential
outcomes coming out.

Telework and the impact on AM and PM commute long-term. More or less telecommute and telework-type
impacts to our customers. How does that translate to future potential scenario and local policies around
first and last mile? They're also interested-- the Technical Working Group and Advisory Committee-- in
understanding the land use and transit relationship over the longer-term. Costs, parking fuel, fares, and
competing modes. And DRCOG has done some solid scenario planning work in support of their recently
adopted 2050 Regional Transportation Plan.
So we're going to rely on a combination of this EMAT tool and the DRCOG scenarios to provide a good
understanding of these various scenarios and potential outcomes as we move forward through the process.
Real quickly, we've also been talking with you and with stakeholders about what it means to be an integrator
for RTD.
We see our future, we've heard this from our Advisory Committee and our Technical Working Group and
many other folks, and they've talked with you previously about being an integrator of services. Public transit
operations, private mobility operators, local communities. Integrating our customer service-facing
availability routing, booking, onboarding processes, and managing expectations, and identifying
opportunities for high, mid, and low-capacity services being integrated either directly provided by our RTD
or integrated in partnerships with others in a comprehensive mobility suite would be kind of the ultimate
goal there of an integrator approach.
Some specific feedback from the Technical Working Group and Advisory Committee as we talked about
these potential scenarios, talked about RTD becoming an integrator as part of the mobility plan for the
future. Those points are on this slide. Highlight a few of them. There was a lot of interest in hearing of a
scenario that has a high level of funding, and then a commensurate high level of service and understanding
the impacts and benefits of that. Much higher than our current financial forecast might be expected to be
able to support.
Certainly concerns and input on workforce and workforce availability. Some interest in RTD conducting
pilots in the future-- down the road, not as part of Reimagine, but as part of the Reimagine's
recommendations to validate those results in an iterative and informative process. There were some
specific questions about electrification and hydrogen fuel cell. And at the time, a lot of interest in the
employee traffic reduction program and its potential impact on demand.
So briefly, public engagement, next steps. Continuing our public engagement attempts moving forward-attempts engagement moving forward through a number of different mechanisms prospectively. AGM
Tonilas mentioned highlighting this in public meetings and town halls. In the fall and winter, your town halls,
a number of other mechanisms to continue to get public engagement.
And then updates and next steps. Just to let you know, that Rebuilding Service Subgroup will be talking
about some of the issues and opportunities around the items that I discussed earlier in my attempt at a
recap tonight. And the Technical Working-- that's tomorrow that will be meeting to discuss that-- those
topics.

The Technical Working Group and Advisory Committee for Reimagine RTD slated to meet in early
September, and then again, we're targeting a Board study session on September 14 to roll up our sleeves
and delve into Reimagine RTD in general, but with a particular focus on those teaser issues around
rebuilding service, opportunities, and constraints, and the System Optimization Plan. That concludes my
attempt, Chair Cook, at providing some highlights regarding the status of Reimagine RTD.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Bill. That was a quick but thorough run-through, I appreciate that. I'm not so
far seeing any questions. Of course, everybody knows they can get in touch with you offline and so forth.
There is one. It looks like Director Lewis, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to tell you that I appreciate the addition of
the youth listening sessions. I know that was something that folks have raised, and so I appreciate you all
incorporating that into the plan. And then I would be remiss to not ask or suggest that we might utilize our
CAC in some way in this process. It seems like they might be interested in serving in that capacity.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. It mentioned long-term stuff. OK. Anybody else? All right. We're at the end of the
committee agenda unless there are other matters. Any other matters to bring to the Board? Or to the
committee, excuse me? All right. Looks like our next meeting date is October 5, 2021. I seem to recall that
the committee can be adjourned without a motion. I'm sure General Counsel Snyder will correct me. But
Director-- so I'll move to adjourn at 9:29 PM, noting that we have one more committee. Director Catlin, do
you want a five-minute break before we—

