2018-11-13 Financial Administration & Audit
Committee
KEN MIHALIK: If you are planning to stay for the meeting I'd ask you to take your seats. It is
now 8:37. I'm Ken Mihalik, the chair of the Financial Administration Audit Committee, and I'll
call this meeting to order. Wasn't very loud.
I will say that I'm a little disappointed that I don't get the same welcome that the previous
meeting did.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, wait.
AUDIENCE: Oh.
KEN MIHALIK: No, it wasn't an invitation for it. It was just an observation.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KEN MIHALIK: Starting off tonight we have a handful of recommended actions, the first being- it is recommended by the Financial Administration Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the attached investment policy, which contains no recommended changes from
last year. And this is in support of the General Manager's core role number three and task code
number one. Do I have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Lubow and Catlin. Is there any discussion on that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, there are no changes, so we would recommend approval.
KEN MIHALIK: No changes. OK. See if there's any speakers in the queue. Maybe some had
some changes they wanted to see from last year. It's saying none. Let me check on the phone. I
think Director Anderson was going to drop off and see if Director-KEN MIHALIK: Oh, OK. So no one's on the phone. Let's say no to speakers. Let's move to a
vote. And again, Director Lubow as the mover and Director Catlin as the second. Not sure who
we're-- 10 people present and 10 yeses. This passes unanimously.
On to the second of two. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors adopts the attached 2019 performance measures for
mission statement goals 1 through 7. In 2019, there are 41 proposed performance measures to be
tracked for the GM, which is the same number as in 2018. No new performance measures are
proposed.
Do I have a motion?

BOB BROOM: Move for approval.
LARRY HOY: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Directors Broom and Hoy. Mrs. McKillop, any discussion on this?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm just going to have Jannette point out a couple of the changes on the
existing goals. We have goal 3.1, 5.1, 6.2, and 6.3 that we're recommending some updates to. So
I'll have her go through those very quickly.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. I would refer you to the Report for the detail. But with
respect to 3.1, On Time Performance, we are recommending a change to regional on-time
performance to 88% from 92%. This is coming about because of traffic congestion from a
variety of sources, as detailed in the Board Report. And year-to-date regional on-time
performance has been 87%. It is not likely to improve in the next 12 months.
Performance measure 5.1, ADA On-Time Performance. The criteria in the ADA contracts has
changed. The contracts no longer require liquidated damages for on-time performance for
contractors. This is now based on passenger on-time performance, which is defined as pickup
within a 30 minute window.
The contracts state that on-time performance should meet the same standard as fixed route,
which is 86%. And because it measures passenger interface, this is considered more appropriate
because it is public facing.
And then KPI is 6.2 and 6.3, we are just inserting the increases in ridership and fair revenue and
total operating revenue largely from the fare revenue model. That's where the numbers are
coming from. And when we are talking about ridership, we are looking at all passenger
boardings, not just revenue ridership. So that includes the mall shuttle and free metro ride.
Again, refer you to the Board Report. We will take questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Chair Tisdale, you are first.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. One question as to goal 3.1. We talk
about system-wide on-time performance and saying let's reduce the metric from 92 to 88 because
of traffic congestion. Is it not possible, is it not perhaps preferable that Scheduling address this
issue and that Scheduling change the schedule for such regional routes so as to address the
congestion? And not that we lower our standards but that we come up with more realistic
scheduling under those circumstances.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you want me to address that, or are you-- I mean, I think one of the
things we've talked about-- that is, when we look at the scheduling piece and if we were to add
additional-- to get to those measures, we'd have to add additional buses and people. And those
are two things we're very short of right now, especially in the manpower situation to meet those.

And so the discussions that have been had in the past is we can't, at this time, afford, either from
a human resource or a funding resource, to add those additional buses and people to
accommodate meeting those goals at this time. But that would be an option, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, I hear what you're saying. But I guess my thought was that instead of
saying, we have a bus leaving at 8 o'clock that will arrive at 8:30, we say, we have a bus leaving
at 8 o'clock that will arrive at 8:45. And not that we add more buses or more operators but that
we say that each ride-- for the regional routes is what we're addressing here on this time metric
that you've got addressed to us. Wouldn't we be better off just saying that?
And it's an honest question. I don't have an answer, but I intuitively believe that that might be
one resolution.
JESSIE CARTER: Yeah. So a point of clarification, if it's OK-BARBARA MCMANUS: Could you get in front of a microphone, please?
JESSIE CARTER: Sorry. This is Jessie Carter, manager of Service Planning and Scheduling. We
make changes to all of our routes, regional included, on a regular basis. That's what I come and
speak before you on a-- probably three times a year. So the type of change that you described,
changing a few minutes to make sure it's on time, those types of changes are made.
But you get to a point where you've made those changes and they accumulate to a point where
the cycle time-- and that's how much time it takes to get from point A to point B-- where it
actually costs you that resource that Heather was referring to. It costs you that additional vehicle
to actually make the service work in a cycle.
So with regional services, we also have the added responsibility of having a large amount of debt
head, going from pulling the vehicle out from a garage and taking it out to the beginning of a
route. So for example, going to the Boulder area and pulling out some of the FFs. That has an
incredible amount of time that is taken up in that as well.
So adjusting schedules, you eventually get to a point where an additional resource, an operator
and a vehicle, is needed in order to complete the schedule. And we can talk more about this
offline, because I don't want to put anybody closer to sleep than they are right now.
LARRY HOY: Getting there.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Jessie. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
KEN MIHALIK: You are welcome. Director Hoy, you are next.
LARRY HOY: Thanks, Chair Mihalik. So I have some of the same concerns the Chair has. And
I think I was ready to talk about it, and I think I've come across maybe something that I'm not
getting anyway. I think I heard the Chair say, well, if you're consistently late, change the time. I
mean, that makes sense.

But I'm now thinking that maybe some of these off schedule or poor performance isn't a regular
occurrence. It's random through this system. In other words, it's not that the 120x is always late
on the departure at 12:40. It's that it's sometimes late. And then there's another bus that's
sometimes late. Otherwise, what he's saying is if it's always late, we don't need more resources
because we're doing it today and it's always late.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But that's not part-- and I'll let Jessie speak to some of that. But some
of the discussion we've had-- because we have a lot of discussion on this internally. But some of
this-LARRY HOY: Well, I'm glad, because that means it's not only me.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Some of the discussion we've had, though, is-- let's say the 120x
leaves on time but there's construction or there's a traffic congestion. As we know, where the
120x goes, it's very congested on I-25, and especially in the northern part of town where there's
an accident almost every day there.
So I think, some of the conversation we've had is it's not as easy as saying that particular one
departs late every day or gets stuck in traffic every day, but it's enough of the time as a system
that we can't meet that overall on-time performance.
LARRY HOY: Yeah. And I think that we just said the same thing. It's not a routine delay, it's the
unexpected delay.
JESSIE CARTER: And it's the impact on the-LARRY HOY: So you can't build an unexpected delay into the schedule.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. And there is a schedule, and the schedule is comprised of use of more
than just-- it's not just one vehicle doing one trip. It's a vehicle that's expected to do a number of
trips throughout a time period. And so the 120x being an example, it takes probably in the peak
period 16 vehicles to actually provide the service that we put on the 120x.
So with that, when something grows late and is off schedule, it can't make its next schedule. So
in order for us to grow that time then pushes it into another time frame. That's where the
additional vehicle will become necessary.
LARRY HOY: I'm with you.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.
LARRY HOY: So can I get a clarification, then, on what Jannette said about the-- what was it?
92% and 88% and what's reality and what the proposed recommended change is?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: The proposed recommend change is to go from 92% to 88%.

LARRY HOY: And what's reality today?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: 87% year-to-date.
LARRY HOY: So you're giving a-- we still have a little bit of an incentive in it. We aren't just
capitulating. We've had those discussions in past years. Oh, let's lower it to 82. No. And we need
to strive to do better, right? OK. All right. That's all the questions.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And get more vehicles off the road so we have room for our buses.
LARRY HOY: Well, there you go.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Just saying.
JESSIE CARTER: Yeah. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Good discussion. Director Lubow, you're next.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I have a question about 6.3, which is-- [COUGHS]-excuse me-- increase in ridership. And the question has to do with, are these goals or is this
particular goal trying to push us to increase ridership? Is that the goal? Because that's my goal. I
really think that that's something that we should want.
But it seems to me from looking at the ridership goals, it talks about, well, it's going to increase
because we're going to reflect full year ridership for the G Line and partial for SERE. So it
doesn't look to me like this goal is trying to push us. It looks to me that it's just saying, this is
how it's going to be and we should meet it. Is that accurate?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So it's saying. I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. It's saying, can we meet our
projected expectations for next year based on what we projected we are going to do for regular
service, as well as the increase with SERE and the Gold line? So we already have potentially
some issues built in there.
And this is assuming that the G line opens in January at the beginning of the year. We have no
indication of whether or not that would happen or not. But that's the projection. We had to
assume something. So that's what we did from that standpoint.
So it's really saying, are we going to meet the projections that we have for next year? Those
projections include what we think we might experience from SERE and the G line but assumes
kind of a regular standard ridership like we have the current year for our regular systems.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, thank you-HEATHER MCKILLOP: A combination of both of what you said.

JUDY LUBOW: Yes. And I'm wondering, since this is a-- not a pet peeve but a pet interest of
mine, that I really think that we should very much care about increasing ridership within the
context of that ridership is falling nationally and what does that mean. But that should be a goal.
And I'm wondering if this performance standard should be used for that? Instead of meeting what
we think we're going to meet if all goes well, as opposed to, wouldn't it be great if we increased
by a point or whatever?
And so I just posit that as a question about how we should handle this particular goal. I think it's
very important. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: You're welcome. Director Broom, you're next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair, I'd just like to point out that there's so many variables to this.
The price of gasoline has really dropped. And if it continues to drop like that, then that means
more people will probably drive as opposed to take public transportation. And so it's extremely
difficult to setup these-- and you don't know when these new lines are going to open for sure, and
you don't know what kind of ridership they're going to have.
It's like when the R line opened it didn't open with as much ridership as was expected. It's just
almost impossible to make a projection into the coming year as to whether the ridership is going
to go up, and if so, by how much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. I don't see anybody else in the queue. With that we'll go to
a vote. Again, it was Director Broom as the mover and Director Hoy as the second.
And this time, with 11 directors present, there were nine yeses and two nos. Director Menten and
Director Folska as the two nos. And it does pass, by the way.
The third of five recommended actions tonight. It is recommended by the Financial
Administration Audit Committee that the Board of Directors adopt resolution to be determined
series of 2018 for the adoption of the 2019 budget, resolution number to be determined series of
2018 for the 2019 budget appropriation, and resolution number to be determined series of 2018
for the appropriation of 2019 previously appropriated capital.
And this is to support the General Manager's goals core role number three and task role number
one. Is there a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Moved.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, thank you. Is there a second?
JEFF WALKER: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Walker. Heather, I'll leave it to you to elaborate.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Jannette's going to walk through any changes that we've made since
last month so you will know what those changes are, and we can point those out to you. So.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. In October, we presented the first draft of the budget, and
we covered our preliminary amounts in some detail. We are bringing the final recommended
budget for both Base and FasTracks to you now.
The total appropriation is right around $2 billion. And that includes a capital carry forward of
$719 million. With regard to operating expenses, the major change to operating expenses from
the previous requested budget presented in October is that we are now including the expense
projects that were approved in the mid-term financial plan for the Base system. And we're also
including the expense project carry forward. Attachment A of your packet details these changes
from the first draft budget to this final budget.
Overall, total district operating expenses are budgeted to increase $55 million from the amended
budget. And again, these expenses are coming from or derive from the mid-term financial plan
for both Base and FasTracks. Generally, we are seeing operating expenses diminish in FasTracks
project, and the largest increase in operating expenses is occurring in FasTracks operations. That
increase is about $46.4 million.
This is the result of O&M for our new service corridors, a higher cost allocation from Base to
FasTracks, the opening of SERE, and startup/operational costs of North Metro, as well as a
higher service payment to DTP to implement a four car consist on the A line in 2019.
With respect to diesel fuel, today I think we locked our price at $2.30 for the remainder of this
year and 2019. So that's good news because it falls right in line with our budgeted amount of
$2.30 a gallon. And we are budgeting gasoline at $2.90 a gallon, which is a slight increase from
the requested budget.
Interest expense and debt, we expect no change since the first draft budget. With regard to capital
expenditures on the Base system, our new capital is $50.3 million, and that is the same number
that was approved in the mid-term financial plan for the Base system.
Attachment B provides a summary of the new capital. Just as an FYI there, our major projects in
new capital are transit buses, downtown track and switches replacement, our blank out screens at
the Welton Street Station, and the Oracle ERP upgrade.
The fleet will be financed from previously issued debt. The capital carry forward for the Base
system-- again, not in the requested budget. We're seeing it for the first time-- is $136 million.
And attachment C provides the detail of the capital carry forward projects.
For FasTracks, new capital is just under $40 million. And again, that's in Attachment B. The
major projects here are North Metro and purchases of Flatiron Flyer vehicles. And the capital
carry forward for FasTracks is about $583 million. Again, not in the requested budget, the first
draft budget. And you will find that detail for this also on Attachment C.

With regard to revenue, I remind you that we don't appropriate revenue, we just estimate it. Total
district revenue is budgeted at $23 million, higher than the 2018 amended. It's coming from an
increase to sales and use tax of 5.6% over 2018 projected per CU Leeds, an increase in Farebox
revenue per the Fair Revenue Model.
We will see grant revenue decline, and that is the only major revenue change from the first draft
budget. And that's due mainly from project wind down in FasTracks. Investment income we
expect to be up over the 2018 amended, largely due to rising interest rates.
Fund balances. On a combined basis, we're budgeting the Board appropriated fund at about $40
million, the Capital Replacement fund at $16 million, the Unrestricted Operating Reserve at $15
million, and the Unrestricted fund at $58 million.
Let me remind you, Exhibit 1 is our full budget for Base and FasTracks. This is largely a
modified income statement and cash flow, and as well a statement of net assets and our fund
balance position. The program capital budget, which is also an attachment, is the detail of all of
our projects' new capital, as well as capital carry forward.
Attachment A, as I mentioned, shows the detail of the change in operating expenses from the
first draft budget to our final budget here tonight. Attachment B, again, the detail of new capital.
And Attachment C shows the detail of the capital carry forward projects.
We will ask that this budget be approved on November 27. At that time it is open for public
comment. Are there any questions at this time?
KEN MIHALIK: I see at least one. Director Hoy, you have the floor.
LARRY HOY: Thank you. Flatiron Flyer buses. There must be a story behind that because those
buses are new buses.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is to increase the fleet. I don't know the whole history, but I
know Bill Van Meter knows the whole history about what we promised for the Flatiron Flyer and
US-36. So this is based on a prior commitment that we made when we initially went through the
environmental process and when we would start increasing service. So Bill, I'll turn that over to
you.
DOUG TISDALE: The Reader's Digest version.
LARRY HOY: Yeah. That would be nice. But I just-- I mean, we just bought those buses.
BILL VAN METER: Exactly. So Heather said it. The commitments were made to make service
improvements at incremental dates. And the first opportunity and point where that commitment
was made was in the 2020/2021 time frame.

For incremental service improvements out of the FasTracks budget for Flatiron Flyer and given
the ridership, we see that capacity and need. And so these buses would be to support that. So
they would be additional buses for the fleet.
LARRY HOY: I mean, it is busier. I mean, it is a busy route, so I kind of get that. But gosh, I
would have thought-- and I was here then. I was involved. It seems to me rather than increase
buses on a time frame, it would be more sensible to increase it based on ridership. But
essentially, one is following the other it sounds like.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: The idea is that they were expecting ridership to be at a certain point
deters the purchase of those buses and increased service. And we have to have the money
budgeted '19 to be able to have them delivered in the '20/'21 time frame.
LARRY HOY: Perfect. OK. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, you're next.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just want to know, what's a blank out screen?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: What I know about it is that it's largely the informational screens at
light rail station at Welton Street.
DAVE GENOVA: You've probably seen them all over the place. When they're not active, it's
just a blank, black sign. And then it'll flash up with a No Right Turn, or No Left Turn, or maybe
with the train symbol. So there they're active warning signs that only activate when you can't do
that activity. So it's a-- and they're more effective at communicating because they flash.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's cool. The only thing I could think of are at the station, the wall
segments that run along the back of the platform. And I thought, wow, that's a lot of money for
those. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And I just have one question. Heather, can you just confirm no
new debt next year.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct. We're financing fleet with existing dollars that we
have.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Menten, you're next.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just one last question. Wouldn't normally the total dollar amount be
included in that recommended action, instead of a little further down in the document? The $2
billion-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, the $2 billion?
NATALIE MENTEN: $335 million. Yeah. Wouldn't it just be normal that it would be in the--

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, and it should be. The dollar amounts are in the resolution, I
believe, also. So that's actually the-- I'll have to get to the resolutions. They're at the very back
here. But no, we typically have not put the dollar amount in the actual action. But if you look at
the resolutions that the Board actually is approving is where it talks of out the various dollar
amounts of what you're approving.
So you're approving the $1.3 billion for current appropriation, and then the carry forward number
of $719,000. So if you add those up, it's the $2 billion.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Sometimes there's people going back in records from previous years.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: For that actual one?
NATALIE MENTEN: Sometimes the recommended action is what they would look at.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I mean, we can do that in the future, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think it's handy if it's at the top. But I thought I would just ask. One
other question, go along the lines of Director Hoy. I can remember the year Phil Washington was
here and I happened to be sitting in the seat where Lorraine Anderson. And we'd just put in the
Flatiron Flyer. And the argument at that time was, this is really not BRT.
And I turned to Phil and said, you know, a little bit of an explanation. He said, yeah, really it's
not the technical definition. But don't worry, we'll add it in later. Is that also part of what's being,
besides just additional fleet? Are there changes then that help to-- no?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. I mean, our BRT doesn't ride on a dedicated guideway. That's the
difference from some other BRTs. But that will not change in that corridor. And we have some
provisions to use the shoulders and other things. But what we'll be adding is additional service
through those buses.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. That's all.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Folska, you are next in the queue.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather, I'm a little lost in all of this. So can
you please remind me or clarify for me where we stand with the fare structure for Access-a-Ride.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we'll be having that conversation in the informational item that
comes after the action items.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I'd like to know about it now.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So right now, the Board has approved $5 for local, $9 for regional, and
$20 for airport.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. I don't see anybody else in the queue, and so we'll move to a
vote. And again, it was Director Williams as the mover and Director Walker as the second. The
motion passes with nine yeses and two nos. The two nos, Director Menten and Director Folska.
The fourth action tonight. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors approve free rides on RTD for active duty members of the
United States Military for the period of January 1, 2019, through December 31, 2019. And this
supports the General Manager's core goal number five. Do I have a moment?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Moved.
KEN MIHALIK: And a second? Director Lubow. Thank you, Director Folska and Director
Lubow. Heather, do you care to elaborate?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I didn't have anything to add, but I'm glad to take questions.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Director Broom, you are up first.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just had a question. How much ridership do we get from
active duty military? I almost never see anybody on a train with a uniform on.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if I could answer that, it's very minimal. So minimal that we do not
track it. So we have not seen an impact, really, from that piece of it.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. Should we maybe publicize this more? I mean-DAVE GENOVA: Well, I think that that's one of the reasons we bring this every year instead of
just adopting it on an ongoing basis, is it gives us opportunity along with the timing of Veterans
Day to reannounce it and to promote it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. There will be a press release done after this. And so it's my
understanding it's part of our normal fare we wouldn't do a press release just for this. We'd just
do a press release when there are fare changes in January. So this gives it some additional boost
from that.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you Director Broom. Director Catlin, you're next.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. My question is, has there been a request or has
there been pressure from active duty military or the branches of the armed services to do this, or
is this just something that RTD has suggested as a good measure?
The reason I'm asking, there was a proposal out of E-470 at the Board that something similar.
And it really was not a request from the branches of the service. It was really a request from one
of the Board Members. And I just didn't know how much pressure there was.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't think there's really any pressure. Our former chair Tobiassen
had a close relationship with our military installations here in the Denver Metro area, and I know
he's been very close to that issue. And I think that's where it kind of started. But no, we haven't
had any specific pressure to do it. I think it's just something nice that we've done in the past and
bring up in front of the Board every year to see if they'd like to continue to do it or not.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And I'll just add-- or actually, I'll let Director Hoy go first.
LARRY HOY: OK. Yeah. I was just going to-- historically, I was one of you, that I said, well,
why do we do this every year? Why do we do it? If we are going to do it, why don't we do it
every three years? I mean, why have we addressed this thing every single year, because there
was a lot of discussion.
And the bottom line, I think I was educated. And they said basically what Heather said. It doesn't
cost us hardly anything. Just can't even measure it it's so small. And by doing it every year we
put out a press release. If you're going to do it, you might as well get some mileage out of it.
So whether you support it or not, the reason we do it every year is just if you're going to do it,
you get the press. And doing it less often or whatever doesn't do the same thing for you. So that's
all I had to say. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: You are welcome. I'll just add the same thing I said last year. It's just a slippery
slope with weighing values and what you consider important or not. So for that reason I'll be a
no. But let's go to a vote. Director Folska as the mover. Director Lubow as the second. And with
nine yeses and two nos it passes. The two nos are Director Menten and myself.
So the last action tonight. It is recommended by the Financial Administration Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors approves the attached resolution to be determined, appointing Bill
Van Meter to a term expiring December 31, 2019, and reappointing Sylvia Francis to a term
expiring December 31, 2020, as trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit, i.e., pension
plan, and Salaried Employee Defined Contribution plan. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Moved.
JUDY LUBOW: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams and Director Lubow, thank you very much. I will just start
off saying that I'd like to extend a sincere thank you to those individuals that had also wanted to
participate in this role and went through the effort of that. So I know it was very close selection.
Heather, do you have any other-HEATHER MCKILLOP: I was just going to add that we had five great candidates this time. And
I thought they put some effort into their applications and resumes. And so I was-- I did send the

appreciation of the Committee to those individuals, thanking them for their time and effort and
putting into that, encouraging if we have an opening to apply in the future.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I second the comments and observations of the Chair and of Ms. McKillop.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And I don't see anybody else, so we'll move to a vote. Director
Williams, you were the mover, and Director Lubow, you were the second. And out of 11
directors this passes unanimously.
And we will move on to a series of updates, first being the Access-a-Ride fares for next year.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, Mr. Chair. This is Heather. So I just wanted to bring this forward
and let you know, the Board passed the fare adoption in September. One of the things they asked
staff to do was go back and look at our recommendation.
Michael and I have spent time doing that. We summarized in this memo the reasoning for our
continued recommendation for $5 for local, $9 for regional, and $20 for airports. I understand it's
an increase but it is minimal.
For local-- that is the majority of our rides-- which is $0.30 increase, $0.50 for regional, and
$2.50 for airport. Airport trips are extremely minimal on the Access-a-Ride. It is our
recommendation to go ahead based on going back and looking at it, having discussions, to keep
that recommendation the same as the Board voted on it in September.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I don't see any questions from anybody so we will move on to-although I do see Director Menten. Are you wishing to speak on this one or the next one?
NATALIE MENTEN: I can do it now, or I could do it all the way at the end. I think it probably
better if I do it now. It's just tying together the service performance that we just passed except for
two voting against it.
And within that, obviously we had a demonstration tonight, and that's going to continue. And if
you all look at the sheet of the issues that were brought to our attention, one of the items from the
adoption of the 2019 performance-- well, while I don't agree with the regional downgrade on the
time, if you'll look, I was kind of expecting somebody to mention item 5.1, which is the ADA
performance.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: To me, I think that after tonight's event it would have jumped to
somebody's attention, because what it's doing is it's taking-- unless I'm wrong. Just correct me if I
am, please. But it is taking it from on-time performance of what right now is about 88.1% down
to 86% because the contract states that it must match local. So you've reduced ADAs level

beyond the regional based upon the vote out of this Board tonight. And I don't know how many
people noticed that.
So you've lowered the standards for ADA, right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But we've made the compliance a stricter number. So currently, it's a
45 minute window. And in that performance measure, it is measured on a 30 minute window. So
there was two corresponding changes. One was to lower the overall percentage, but also to make
the requirements stricter for the customer. So what the customer's experience is is any anytime
we're over 30 minutes, one second late we're late.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So I guess nobody's wanting to speak on the Access-a-Ride
fares. We've had this discussion come up a couple of times. And that really-- the reason I'm
bringing it up is because this seems to be actually a little more about timing than really about
money, what we saw tonight.
So that's all I'm going to mention as we go into discussion over the next couple of weeks
because, it was our chairman-- rightfully took position to try and bring reasonableness and avoid
further disruption to our meeting. I'm just bringing these items up because I know we're going to
be having a conversation about it. So I'll leave it at that, and we can move forward.
KEN MIHALIK: More to come. Director Folska, you are next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I have to say that I'm deeply disappointed in
this. And I think that staff has absolutely failed to appreciate truly the magnitude of the financial
impact that this has on our riders with disabilities, while at the same time we're going out and
building this FLEX ride and putting all this money into it. And it's essentially the same service
and it would be free.
And I would really hope and encourage you to take another deep dive, especially when you're
looking at FLEX ride and Access-a-Ride. That's it. And I won't be supporting this budget until
that's really more in alignment with each other.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Solano, you have the floor.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairman. I've been a strong proponent for the civil
rights of our most vulnerable population since I was elected back in 2012. And I hope my
predecessor, who's here tonight, will take that initiative too. He's giving me a nod. That's not
going to do any good now.
I'm going to be a no vote. And $0.30 to a lot of people's nothing. Try living on fixed income and
try and take a wheelchair to the store and back. I had an uncle that was a paraplegic, and I know
exactly what he went through. And for that reason, I am a definite no.

And anybody else that votes in the affirmative on this is not thinking deep enough, and you
really need to-- if you vote yes on this tonight, go to bed at night and have dreams as to why you
should have not voted on it.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Well, Heather. Thank you for that. Seeing no other speakers.
We'll move on to the September monthly financial report.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So in just the essence of time now, we'd just be glad to take any
questions that you might have on the financial report.
KEN MIHALIK: Seeing none. These were updated to the actuals. I remember we spoke last
week.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. These are the actuals.
KEN MIHALIK: I see one. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I wonder if you could speak to recent trends in sales tax. I
mean, are we seeing the receipts continue to grow, or are they starting to get softer? I think car
sales are probably coming down.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I have to say, I contributed to car sales in this month. So I just
want to say that my 1% I was very proud to pay. He was trying to convince me I didn't have to
pay it, and I told him, yes I did. I know I live in the district because I moved there specifically.
But yeah. I think we continue to see it at a steady pace. A remarkable pace, I would say. And I
think when the CU School of Leeds was here they said a similar thing, that the indicators show
that the economy might be slightly slowing down. But from the forecast, we're still at a 5 and
1/2% increase over last year, which is significant.
I know in this agency, we experienced-- after to 2010/'11, we started seeing double digit
increases, which is just unheard of. But to continue to see a sustained growth at over 5% is quite
remarkable. And I don't think-- we haven't seen that.
I mean, our adjustments have been more because we've had an audit or two where there's been a
refund back to a vendor or something like that. But I'll let you see if you want to add anything to
that.
DOUG MACLEOD: No. No. I think that's it. One other point maybe would be the marijuana tax.
It's a little less than 1% increase that we saw with the reinstatement of the medical-- or the retail
marijuana taxes on July 1. Prior to that, in the month of June, for instance, we collected
$225,000. After that was reinstated we've collected anywhere from $560,000 to $581,000 per
month since.
So that's really the only area where we've seen an increase. Everything else has been pretty
steady. One thing I might note is that we did talk to the city and county of Denver. We

sometimes compare our sales and use tax results to theirs. For the month of September, while we
were up 4% this September versus last September, they were only up 1%.
We have a little bit different mix. We have more car dealerships. They have more restaurants.
But they're starting it flatten, possibly drop just a little bit. And we've seen it not continue that
upward climb but maybe to plateau a little bit. But still, as Heather says, 5.5% is pretty
remarkable.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. And I think the interesting part is we've seen Boulder-Boulder's actually had to cut their budget as they moved into 2019, et cetera. So we are seeing
pockets of slowing. But overall, I think because of the diversity of our region, we're seeing a
more stable continual growth right now. Not sure it'll last-- how long it'll last. That's what
everybody is asking right now. But right now that's where we are.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten, you are next.
NATALIE MENTEN: I just want to give kudos to Heather. You truly are a good little taxpayer,
especially after you told me you even file your consumer use tax forms.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, I do.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I just wanted to tell you that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Might not have to do that too much longer with the online taxing. But
yes, I do. It's kind of like paying my own salary. So that's how I look at it.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Moving on to the third quarter investment report. Thank
you, Mr. MacLeod.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I would say the same thing and take any questions. We see a slight
tick up. So we're almost at 2% in investment income, which is higher than we've ever been. But
if you look at the numbers, that does make even a considerable difference. Several million
dollars a year, going from about 1.2%, 1.4%, up to around 2%. So I'd just say we're continuing to
see growth because of the increase in interest rates, which, at the same time, because we're not
issuing debt, we're not seeing those higher interest rates on that side either. So it's a benefit to us
right now.
KEN MIHALIK: Any questions on the investment report? Seeing none. We'll move on to the
fiscal sustainability update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if you read the report, basically we have no updates from our last
update that we did in the spring. Status quo.

KEN MIHALIK: OK. Any questions on the status quo update? I don't see any, so we will move
on to the last update. This is the-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Which is not mine, so I'm going to leave.
KEN MIHALIK: All right. Thank you, Mrs. McKillop. This is going to be the unsolicited
proposal on the Montbello park and ride.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So before the agenda, my boss said I can leave after I finished my
item.
[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: I didn't know it was the last one on the-- sorry, Henry and Susan. That's the
way it goes sometimes.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So this is a quick update for the Board. We received an unsolicited
proposal and appraisal for an RTD parcel that was formerly the Montbello Park -n- Ride. That's
about 1.38 acres.
As you may recall, we opened up the University of Colorado A line and the R line. We moved
the transit activities from the Montbello park and ride to 38th and Peña Station. The station
serves as a major transit hub where patrons can make transfers between University of Colorado
A line and the R line a number of bus routes.
We have two Board resolutions and associate policies that could apply to regarding the
unsolicited proposal, either number 15 or 2015, regarding the policy for joint development and
disposition of real property, and 2016 of 2015, or number 16 of 2015, regarding our solicited
proposal policy for real property.
Based on these resolutions, subject to Board review and change, especially with the changing
market conditions, we are not constrained regarding the next steps. Typically, an unsolicited
proposal for property, we notify the Board and such and seek the Board's input and direction.
We have a number of options to consider. The procedure. We can proceed with an Request for
Proposal (RFP) with conditions for the use of the property, sale, put it out in the market for fair
market value, or just go ahead and advertise the property. So what we wanted to do today was
basically just come to the Board.
Like I said, it's about 1.3 acres. This is the old Montbello park and ride. The area is considered a
suburban neighborhood, mixed use. The location can have up to a 12 story building on the
property. And it's located at 4690 Peoria Street.

And with me at the table I have Susan Altes, the Senior Manager, Real Property. And out in the
audience we've got Phil Lidov, Manager of Property. But this one here, we've had a lot of
conversations back and forth at different levels. So since it did pique the interest, we thought it
would be worthwhile to bring to the Board and get Board input.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Henry. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The observation that I have made-[COUGHS]-- excuse me-- to General Manager and to Mr. Stopplecamp associated with this is
that the Board policies that are addressed and that are implicated by this, perhaps at some point
in time, we're going to need to look at to provide greater clarity.
But I believe that in any event it should be understood and recognized by this Board and by the
Successor Board as of January and by staff that property such as this would have to go through
the filter of this Board before we would be in a position to have any serious discussions with
anyone relative to the sale of any such property. And in any event, such discussions would begin
with consideration of the lease of such property, rather than sale. And that's for the reasons
previously stated so I won't burden the record further with that. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten, you are next.
NATALIE MENTEN: First of all, is Terri-- and I'm trying to think of her last name. Is Terri one
of the individuals out in the Montbello organizing group that has been part of this discussion? Is
that name at all familiar?
SUSAN ALTES: I have met with the Montbello organizing group several times. We have
worked with them for the past two years on their use of the property for a pop up market and that
type of thing. I am not familiar with a Kerri associated with them.
Former Director Chris Martinez has been a part of that committee. Donna Martin, Denise
Burgess, Willy Shepherd. I'm not familiar with Kerri.
NATALIE MENTEN: Terri. OK.
SUSAN ALTES: Or Terri.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
SUSAN ALTES: I'm sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: No problem. So let me make sure this unsolicited proposal is about
making that a park-- is that-- or no, making it a commercial 12 story something? Up to.
SUSAN ALTES: Up to. The community would like to do something on the main floor to serve
the community, much like the markets that they have been having the past two summers to serve

that area. A recreation center, some type of market. Fresh vegetables have done wonders in this
neighborhood where it is pretty much a-- what do they call it?
NATALIE MENTEN: A food desert.
SUSAN ALTES: A food desert. So they've been really pleased with their results from that. And
then they have brought in Denise Burgess and Willie Shepherd to help with the perhaps
affordable housing on upper levels.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Although there's a huge apartment complex just on the other side of
the road there.
SUSAN ALTES: Street. Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: And then-- so Terri's one of the ones that I dealt with-- and this goes back
to one of the bus routes we had to change because it was going to go to a Walmart, which was
one of the few grocery areas out there. So I'm very familiar with the area.
One of their concerns in the area was that after the Park -n- Ride left, that there was going to be a
lot of crime action and things like that, loitering. And my only other question is, have we had a
lot of problems with that since we vacated the park and ride?
SUSAN ALTES: I am unaware of any problems that we've had at that location. We have worked
on facilities maintenance group. It's totally closed off, with the exception of the time that this
organizing committee has used it during the summer and Fall months.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And let me follow up with that. On this location, it's basically a sea
of concrete through there.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So the property that we own is concrete. We've got Jersey barricades
at the entrances. So there's not a whole lot places for anybody to hide or do anything. It's just an
open area with lighting out there.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And I drove by when we had our fare study at the rec center that's a
couple blocks to the east there. I did take notice of it, which was only a few months ago. So that's
all I wanted to check.
One other-- when you say up to two story, what is the actual zoning designation then? I'm not as
familiar with Denver's designations.

SUSAN ALTES: S-MX-12, suburban neighborhood context, mixed use, up to 12 stories. They
have not really made a proposal. They just have some dreams of what they would like to do
there.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So that was Sam, Natalie, and what was the other part of that? Did I
get that right?
SUSAN ALTES: SMX.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I was trying to get my name in there. SMX-MU.
SUSAN ALTES: S-MX-12 is the zoning designation.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you very much. OK. No, that's all the questions I have. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Director Williams, you're next.
KATE WILLIAMS: What exactly is the proposal?
SUSAN ALTES: That they would like to buy the property.
KATE WILLIAMS: And did they put a price tag on their proposal?
SUSAN ALTES: They did.
KATE WILLIAMS: And is it market compatible?
SUSAN ALTES: The offer was based on a fair market value appraisal that they had prepared.
Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: And so I know that we do have a policy that we have discussed at length,
this particular group of people that we prefer to not sell anything. I'm also familiar with the
group and the stuff that they're doing there. And do we have a counter proposal, that we'd like to
lease it to them more partner with them on some kind of usage? Because I know that they want
to move beyond just the summer market.
SUSAN ALTES: We have not done a formal evaluation on whether or not leasing. Just right
now, through discussions of the real estate folks at RTD, the transit-oriented development folks
and myself, it does not appear that a lease would be something that would be appropriate for this
market. But we do have some professional folks on contract that we could have some quick
study done to take a look at that.
KATE WILLIAMS: So that would be my request, that since we have this agreement that we
don't want to sell it and we know that they're a good group of people, that we look at some other
option that would allow them to make some use of the property. And we have a lot of resources.
Go ahead, Henry. I'm sorry.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes. This is Henry Stopplecamp. We've looked at it, and we can
bring people in. The question is, how much are we willing to spend on time, staff time, and
outside resources to look at it? And I do not believe that there is an official policy that we'd lease
versus selling. I know there's been conversations back and forth, and that's one of the things and
that's one of the reasons we brought this to the Board.
We haven't gone any further with the Montbello group because we wanted to figure out your
guys' take on this project. And it's not just this, we've got other projects in the wings. We're
putting together a basically surplus property for next year to get rid of little pieces here and there.
And that's been the direction we've been moving forward with once we get the corridors taken
care of.
So if the policy is now not to sell but to lease, we need to have some new guidelines put out
there. But we do have folks that can look and make recommendations, but we will be required to
pay them for their time.
KEN MIHALIK: Speakers are adding up. Director Williams, were you finished.
KATE WILLIAMS: For the moment.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Director Solano, you're recognized.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Now that we're on the topic of real
estate, what is the status of 72nd and Broadway Park -n- Ride.
SUSAN ALTES: That piece of property has been determined that it could have future use for
transit, with the possibility of a future operations facility at that location. So it is being held for
that purpose.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: OK. I thought maybe we would use it as a old bus sales lot.
[LAUGHTER]
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: That was just a joke.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Chair Tisdale, you're recognized.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that. The policy to which I
think reference has been made concerning lease versus sale is a consideration for TOD. And at
this point, there is potentially some question as to whether this particular parcel might ever
qualify for a TOD as that is classically defined.
But it is imperative in my view, and I will speak to long and hard on this subject, that this Board
take whatever steps are necessary in order to assess and protect itself concerning its real property

assets in the future and not feel compelled, simply because somebody comes up with an appraisal
report and a check and a proposal and that it may have been called excess property at some point,
to dispose of that property. Not while I'm sitting here.
And so I do suggest that if it does take additional analysis, assessment, that we invest those
resources.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And we can do that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, you are next in the queue.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Yeah. I concur with Chair Tisdale. Unless you
are so hard up for cash you don't sell your real property. You lease it.
Now I'm wondering, Heather, if you wouldn't mind providing this Board with some chart of the
funds that this organization has received since the opening of the Union Station facility. Not the
bus barn or box but the retail portion of the historic building, because that's a 99 year lease, plus
another 50 years I think, right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So just to clarify, so the amount that we're getting from the lease
sharing that we're doing at Union Station?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I mean, that's really the model, right? I mean-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. I have that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: --they put in $54 million to renovate that place and we still own it. And
we're getting lease payments and revenue from the retail operations, right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So if we could just have a look at that. Now, I mean, that's the mother of
all TODs, for sure, but it's a model that can be replicated again and again at different scales in
different areas. And I think, really, that ought to be what you're thinking of, rather than a quick
fix, a one time deal, and just selling your property and being done with it.
And also, if you don't mind, what does it cost us to take their money? I mean, how much
manpower do we use to look after the money that's coming in from Union Station from the lease
and the retail operation? Thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Hoy, you're next.
LARRY HOY: Thank you. So while I agree with the general comments made, I think that we
can't blanket say we lease all properties. We all know the vacant lot in the neighborhood that sat
there past its prime and now it's worth nothing, or they had to wait for the grandkids to sell it 40,
50, 60 years later.
There are properties that come on the market that are-- it's timely. There are people that made
their fortunes up and down Washington Street, Broadway, and York, and then there are
grandkids that are saying, oh, yeah, now we've got grandpa's land. And maybe today they're
making money, but 20 years ago they couldn't sell it. 10 years ago it was not saleable.
So I'm just cautioning against a blanket, we must lease, because every property is unique. Every
property has to be considered. And I guess I might even add that's my business. This is what I
do.
And so sometimes-- [INAUDIBLE] Union Station, that was great. It was the right time, right
place, worked well for us. If we could do that model all over town I would be a happy camper.
Maybe this property is one of those leased properties, but I'm afraid that I don't want to stand
here or sit here tonight and say, well, we should just lease it, because the people that are right
now in front of us may say, see ya. And then we may hold it for 50 years.
We've got a piece of property right now at Riverdale Road and 104th. It is not designated for
transit. It's 10 acres, I'm thinking, 12.
SUSAN ALTES: About 12.
LARRY HOY: Yeah. 12 acres. And its time had come and gone. It may be coming back though,
because that area is growing. There's just a timing issue on this land that we can't overlook. I'm
not advocating that we go forward. I'm just advocating that we think out of the box, that we leave
our options open, and maybe our staff comes back to us and says, you know, Board, I guess you
get to decide because they don't want to lease.
And I wouldn't be surprised if that's the case. Very few people want to lease if they're going to
put in the improvement, which is the building. They don't want to put in-- we're kind of getting
the concept of first floor, retail, second, third, fourth, fifth, however high they go, with
commercial or maybe residential, whatever it is. They aren't going to put that big investment.
Often, many companies won't put in that big investment on leased land because-- Honolulu's
leased. The value of property in Honolulu is going down every time they get closer to the end of
that 99 year lease. It's just the way life is.
We have very, very, very few-- in fact, I can only think of one-- multi-family development in the
Denver metro area, maybe two, that are on leased land. So anyway, that's what I have to say.
Thank you very much.

KEN MIHALIK: Good perspective. Director Broom, you're next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Does the appraisal amount include the large haircut for
removing an acre of concrete?
LARRY HOY: I wondered about that.
SUSAN ALTES: The property was valued to be sold as is, where is.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
BOB BROOM: But I mean, if somebody had an appraisal done, I mean, it's not usable in its
current form. So you're going to have to tear out what's in there. It just makes this a really
difficult piece of property to develop. And I kind of agree with Larry. Sometimes, when
something comes along, you might as well do it.
I mean, 1.3 acres is not that big of a parcel to begin with. And to get into a complicated leasing
arrangement that you're going to have to manage for the next 50 years, I personally would rather
get out of it what you can and see the area develop than trying to milk it and sat here for the next
20 years for somebody to come forward that would be willing to lease it.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Broom. Dr. Lubow, you are next in the queue.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Not being a real estate person but just listening to
the discussion, it seems to me that what we're looking for is-- it's not hard and fast, but it's a
process that the Board, after past mistakes, I think, is saying, don't rush to sell, but selling might
be the best way to go.
But do a process of analyzing a cost analysis. Would it be better to lease or to sell? And what are
the reasons to do so? And that's what's being asked, it seems to me. And I would think that
there's a reasonable checklist to go through to figure out if it makes sense to sell or lease.
And maybe lease or sale aren't the only options. I don't know. But how can we get-- how can we
milk this property the most for ourselves? And have a list of how we should go forward based on
a checklist of what's the best thing to do. Hopefully that's possible to do. Thank you.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: This is Henry Stopplecamp. I think I'm hearing a lot of the same
thing from the various Board Members. And so yes, we'll go back. We'll look at it. We're just
going off of previous Boards' directions. And the directions have been to sell. This Board has
said, look at both options.
What we'll do is we'll spend some time and some funds to have it evaluated appropriately. And
we've got some other properties out there too. So we'll pick another plan and come back to the
Board and get the input.

But there are some remnants out there. And I would ask that we be allowed to get rid of the
remnants. And we've got little pieces. We've got pieces not much bigger than this room that the
neighbors would like to take care of, take it off our hands. And we've got with the municipalities
the same thing.
So on the small pieces we'd still like to go forward. And if we can find somebody that'll take it
off our hands, who want to maintain, fence, and take care of debris and trash, we'll go ahead do
that. But the other pieces, we'll put together a plan and come back to the Board.
JUDY LUBOW: Excellent. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow. So it sounds like maybe next year there'll be a lot
more activity around this concept. Director Menten, you are next.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Thank you. Because I really did make a statement in the first as far
as asking for additional items. I do think that we should sell it. I think we're a transportation
company and not a landlord. And there's no park and ride there now. We shouldn't be in the
market of competing with the private sector, and that's what that'd be doing.
As Chair already mentioned, pricing it out, doing those things. Let's sell to somebody who's
contributing to the property tax system and all the other things that come along with property
ownership. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Solano, you are next.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. My opinion is taking out that Park -nRide made Montbello a transportation desert to begin with. But I do agree that if we're just going
to have property sitting there, let's sell it. That, to me, makes perfect sense. That area of town is
probably not real marketable for development. Maybe it is, but I've lived in that northeast
quadrant for many, many years and it's probably not. So I say let's sell it. I think would be the
best option.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. So location, location, and timing, timing. All that. Seeing nobody
else, we'll move on to other matters.
KEN MIHALIK: I see-- thank you, Mr. Stopplecamp. Director Menten, you are first.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Dave, could you just give a brief update on the Gold Line. I know
we just keep coming back. But what's the current status? Where are we at?
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. Director Anderson asked about that earlier, and I did-NATALIE MENTEN: Oh. Was I out?
DAVE GENOVA: I did do an update.

NATALIE MENTEN: I will listen to the-- I won't take up time again.
DAVE GENOVA: I'll tell you.
NATALIE MENTEN: He can tell me. I apologize. I was doing something. OK.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So earlier, the group of people here really had my enthusiasm and my
support because under the difficult circumstances in which they live, they still made it down here
to voice their opinion. And that really, really energized me. And I think that they deserve our
utmost respect for being here and for getting it done, because that's what this country-- that's how
it was founded, from the first tea bags that were tossed into the Boston Harbor to 40 years ago,
38 or so years ago, when folks lay down in front of the buses to get wheelchair lifts on, et cetera.
So that's to be taken seriously, not lightly at all. My grandmother, my parents, they needed
mobile assistance as they got on in years, before too many years. So anyway. So I just wanted to- none of them are here now, at least not that I see. So I just want to say thank you to them. I'm
looking forward to our discussion in two weeks.
I will be here that night. I'll be flying to DC later on that evening. But I'm looking forward to that
discussion and all the information that staff can provide to us between now and then. That's it.
Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I will second that. I will pass my gratitude on to Chair Tisdale, and
Rolf, and the various security staff, and whoever else was involved in facilitating a resolution
that seemed to work. Yes. Yes. Chair Tisdale, you are next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I just wanted to express my very sincere thanks to our security
staff because these things can easily blow up. And the very level headed, calm, restrained
reaction, polite, respectful action on the part of our security staff saved us from a media
nightmare. So thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Solano.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair. I just want to take one more bite of the apple.
Until we live in these people's shoes we'll never know. And I just want to reinforce that $0.30.
God forbid none of us ever end up paralyzed or in their predicament. So once again, think about
that.
KEN MIHALIK: OK Thank you. Seeing no one else. Our next meeting will be December 11.
And we are adjourned.

