## I. Call to Order

Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

### 1. Roll Call

Director Folska participated via remote.  Directors Bagley, Lasater, and Menten were absent.

Staff Present:         Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Heather Copp, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Deborah Menendez-Wilson, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Michael Washington

Others Present:       Andrea Chririboga-Flor, Alessandra Desiderio, Mayra Gonzales, Daryl Kinton, Gregg Moser, Aneka Patel, Joe Triplett, Daniela Villarreal, Dace West

## II. Update on GM Recruitment Process (Gregg Moser-Krauthamer)

Chair Sisk introduced Gregg Moser from Krauthamer & Associates, Inc., the Executive Search firm selected by the General Manager Executive Search Committee in June, 2015 to manage the hiring process of RTD’s new General Manager.  Krauthamer & Associates was the firm hired for RTD’s General Manager hiring process in 2009. Chair Sisk noted that Gregg Moser spent the day meeting individually with Board members and participated during the General Manager Executive Search Committee meeting held prior to the Study Session.

Gregg Moser thanked RTD for engaging Krauthamer & Associates in the Executive Search process.  He also thanked the Board members for their time throughout the day.  He said that it was great to hear each Director’s perspective on where RTD is and what they are looking for in a CEO.

Gregg Moser explained that since Krauthamer & Associates engaged in the Executive Search process in June he has worked with the General Manager Executive Search Committee to finalize the job description.  The description includes desired attributes and skills expressed by the Board as well as incorporated stakeholder community feedback.  The firm has done background diligence for advertising the position.  Gregg Moser said that as the process moves forward, the next steps are publicizing the position through advertising and direct recruit.  He explained that the position is being advertised on RTD’s website as well as other local, national and international forums.  Gregg Moser stated that he has started the 60 day direct recruitment process.  He is targeting executives in different industries in both the public and private sector.  The recruiting is done through networking and outreach.  He stated that Krauthamer & Associates is keeping an open mind to find the right candidate for the position.  Gregg Moser pointed out that there is interest in the position as he already has received applications.

Gregg Moser noted that it is a candidate’s market in the transit industry as seven major agencies, as well as a few smaller ones, are in an Executive Search process.  The seven large agencies are Vancouver, Seattle, Salt Lake City, Orlando, Washington D.C., New York City, and Philadelphia.  He said that RTD offers outstanding benefits beyond the financial component such as completion of significant FasTracks projects, regional economic development, and Denver’s overall work-life balance.

Gregg Moser stated that Krauthamer & Associates will continue evaluating candidates.  The goal is to consider 5 to 7 candidates for interviews and then narrowing the field to finalists.  The General Manager Executive Search Committee wants to be respectful of Colorado State laws for public disclosure while respecting the privacy of candidates.  He pointed out that the goal is to have a candidate on board by the end of the year.

Director Walker asked Gregg Moser to share the type of impression potential candidates have of RTD.  He said that he is in contact with different transit industry members and would love to hear a view outside of the industry.  Gregg Moser replied that the region itself offers a great place to work with a reasonable cost of living.  RTD is considered a progressive transit agency transitioning from capital programs to operations and maintenance while keeping focus on the future.  Director Walker wondered if Denver or RTD is the opportunity people may be looking for.  Gregg Moser said that the opportunity is RTD.

Director James asked what points may be unattractive to prospective candidates.  Gregg Moser replied that it all depends on what the candidate is looking for.  Seattle and Orlando are still in major capital growth programs.  New York City is the largest transit agency; if someone is looking for that, RTD will not be attractive.  The role that transit plays into regional development is another factor; if someone wants to work somewhere where the region is starting to transition toward transit, then RTD is a great place to be at.

Chair Sisk wondered how many of the large transit agencies in Executive Search processes have an elected board.  Gregg Moser replied that they all have appointed boards.

Chair Sisk thanked Gregg Moser for the time.  He said that RTD is very fortunate to have a first class professional like Gregg Moser working with us.  He noted that Krauthamer & Associates had the highest score in all the elements of the Request for Proposal.  He thanked Paula Perdue for what she has done and continues to do during this process.  Chair Sisk thanked all the Directors for their time and commitment.  He stated that RTD will take the right time to find and hire the right candidate.

## III. Fare Task Force Update - Eco Pass Program  (Bruce Abel)

Chair Sisk reminded the Board that today’s update and discussion will be only as it relates to the EcoPass program.  He noted that Bruce Abel, Assistant Manager for Bus Operations, and Lacy Bell, Planning Project Manager for Operations, have met with several organizations to ensure RTD is reaching out to stakeholders in order to continue the fare dialogue.  He reminded the Directors that this discussion was postponed from the Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting on August 11, 2015.

Bruce Abel restated that the focus of tonight’s discussion will be the EcoPass program.  The companies engaged in the program will expect a renewal letter in September thus staff is seeking the Board’s feedback tonight in order to have Board approval of the new terms in a timely fashion.  He noted that there will be stakeholder meetings that may influence staff’s current thinking.  Staff’s expectation is to come back with a recommendation during September’s Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting and seek Board approval in September as well.  Staff will address the non-profit fare program during the September Study Session.  Bruce Abel thanked the Directors that called and/or sent in their observations and feedback.

Lacy Bell reviewed the Fare Study EcoPass program presentation included in the Study Session agenda packet for August 25, 2015.  The presentation covered the background of the existing programs and study schedule, rationale for the pass program, current business EcoPass program pricing and service level areas, current pricing policy, current thinking for modifying EcoPass program pricing and contracts, EcoPass program pricing matrix under current thinking, detail for upgrade charge to DIA, current thinking for 2016 neighborhood EcoPass program contracts, revenue impact and next steps.  She noted that staff used 2011 survey data instead of SmartCard compiled data for accuracy when developing staff’s current thinking for the business EcoPass program.

Bruce Abel emphasized Lacy Bell’s explanation of the charts on page 16 of the Study Session agenda packet.  These charts explain the current fare structure discount levels and how staff arrived at the current thinking for a 30% discount for the business EcoPass program.  He noted that staff’s current thinking of the EcoPass program will be presented to stakeholders during the RTD Local Government meeting on Thursday, August 27.  Staff will also meet with other stakeholders, sponsors, and other business to business programs in the next several weeks.

Director Anderson thanked staff for explaining how staff arrived at the current thinking in a manner that is easy to understand.  She said that staff had answered why they used 2011 data instead of SmartCard data.  She asked staff what will happen once SmartCard data is able to be applied towards these estimations.  Bruce Abel said that staff has a good sampling on bus ridership data.  He added that EcoPass program rail users were not used to doing anything proactively with the SmartCard and it has taken a while to catch on.  Director Anderson said that the explanation of the current thinking on the discount did not seem onerous and it correlated with the fare increase approved during the first phase of the Fare Study.  She thanked staff for their work.  Lacy Bell said that cash fares were increased by 13.3%.  The 30% discount in consideration for the EcoPass program makes it comparable to a monthly pass discount.

Director Lubow thanked staff for their work.  She shared her concern that stakeholders have not been included so far in the process.  She compared it to the Northwest Area Mobility Study when stakeholders received the data simultaneously with staff.  She wondered what data CH2M Hill, the consulting firm hired to assist with the Fare Study, used to arrive at the average EcoPass program fare of $2.28 as reviewed during the presentation.  She added that the concern is not the 13.3% increase but the additional 4.4% increase included in the presentation as it seemed to not be supported by data.  Director Lubow said that stakeholders are looking forward to the Local Government meeting later in the week. Lacy Bell replied that she could provide the data at the meeting.  Director Lubow said that she feels there is a timed deadline and the process is getting rushed in getting the information to stakeholders, who have a right to see the information.

Director Lubow asked on behalf of a stakeholder if RTD would consider quarterly payments for the EcoPass program.  Bruce Abel replied that there are unusual instances where installments payments are accepted.

Director Lubow asked if EcoPass program participants could be considered to have a discount similar to those who will use a SmartCard under the 2016 fare structure.  Bruce Abel replied that the presentation discussed staff’s analysis of the different types of discounts available to all participants.  He recalled the discussion during the Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting on August 11, 2015 where Title VI issues were discussed in term of equity available to all customers.  Marla Lien, General Counsel, reminded the Directors that CH2M Hill used the criteria from the Federal Transit Administration to analyze Title VI issues when it comes to discounts.  She stressed the importance of who has access to the discount programs and who uses them.  She said the goal is to equalize average fare pay by non-minority, non-low-income riders.  She added that the chances of the agency getting sued on these terms are low and that other agencies that have been sued under this terms have won.  Director Lubow noted that this is a very valid discussion; however, it has been a private discussion not presented to the stakeholders.

Director Lubow stated that the issues she has discussed so far concern her because of transparency.  She would like RTD to have this discussion, including Title VI issues, with stakeholders instead of the discussion being an afterthought.  Marla Lien said that Title VI issues are not a legal concern at this time.  Dave Genova, Interim General Manager, added that Title VI issues have been discussed with stakeholders.  Director Lubow requested that Title VI issues be discussed during the Local Government meeting later in the week.

Director Lubow requested that staff not rely on the Business EcoPass program to fund a low-income/non-profit program.  She said that pitting programs against each other is not good.  Bruce Abel reassured Director Lubow that staff is casting a wide net.  Chair Sisk noted that he received the same email communication Director Lubow did which addressed all these matters.

Director Francone asked for clarification on the service level areas.  Bruce Abel said that when discussing the business EcoPass program, service area A is the suburban area, service area B are high traffic areas outside of town (such as the DTC), service area C is the Central Business District, or Downtown Denver (CBD), and service are D is Denver International Airport (DIA).

Director Francone said that she understood the computation of the 18.3%.  She asked staff to clarify the extra 4.4% discount to the business EcoPass program above the 13.3% increase of the cash fare.  Lacy Bell replied that the current undiscounted average fare for EcoPass program participants is $3.39; this includes all fare levels.  CH2M Hill’s model looked at riders and revenue and found that the average discounted fare price is $2.28 per trip.  A 30% discount would result in $2.38, which is 4% higher than $2.28.  Director Francone asked for confirmation that these prices were calculated using EcoPass program purchases data.  Lacy Bell said that the 2011 EcoPass program purchase data is the most accurate.  Director Francone asked if staff did not use SmartCard data because they did not have it.  Bruce Abel replied that staff felt comfortable with the SmartCard bus ridership data.  To figure out rail ridership data, staff would have had to use a mathematical equation to factor the rail data as the data at hand is not accurate.  He said that if the mathematical equation was used the discount would have been a bit more substantive.

Director Francone wondered how many businesses participated in the EcoPass program in unincorporated Jefferson County and how many units each business purchased.  Bruce Abel and Lacy Bell replied that staff will provide Director Francone with the information.

Director Tobiassen thanked staff for their work and the presentation.  He shared his concern that the stakeholders meeting may only represent a small portion of the riders.  He said that low income riders are not part of the EcoPass program.  Director Tobiassen noted that a 40% or even a 30% discount is substantial; meanwhile the low-income rider paying full fare to subsidize the program uses RTD services to look for a job, going to the doctor, and other day to day necessities.  He finds this very disturbing and a Title VI issue.  He said he is concerned that RTD will feel the pressure from the EcoPass program stakeholders while the working poor end up subsidizing the heavy discount.  He thanked staff for leveling the playing field as much as possible.

Director Folska thanked staff for their work.  She noted that the idea of low income riders paying full fare and the free parking at Park-n-Rides have not been taken into account into the EcoPass program structure.  She added that students pay $77 for 3 months of EcoPass program access.  She wondered if that was at a 30% or 40% discount.  Bruce Abel replied that the current policy is 40% discount and the college contracts have been executed for the 2015-2016 school year.  Director Folska stated that the college employees receiving the benefits of the EcoPass program have to pay a monthly fee.  She shared that the residents at the University Station Senior Housing pay $10 a month to be part of the EcoPass program.  She wondered why something similar could not be done for a low income/non-profit fare program.  Bruce Abel replied that the pricing for the University Station Senior Housing is based on a survey that reflects current ridership patterns. The monthly price is $12.

Director Folska expressed her disappointment at the missed opportunity of utilizing Park-n-Ride parking for revenue.  She said that this would have been a great way to help subsidize a low income/non-profit program that could reflect the offer to the University Station Senior Housing.  Chair Sisk reminded the Directors that the low income program will be discussed during the September Study Session.  Director Folska said that the current discussion is relevant as we are talking EcoPass program that we are giving away at $12.  Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for Communications, added that the University Station Senior Housing EcoPass program is not unique to this location and is offered at other designated places.  He pointed out that this is something to take into consideration as staff moves forward.

Director Walker noted that RTD has a bunch of different programs and ways of selling fare.  He is not upset that someone gets a discount for buying 2000 passes at once.  He noted he has talked to Michael Washington, Title VI Manager, and he does not share the concerns about this being a Title VI issue since people and business choose to be part of the program and participants choose to use the program or not.  He added that does not have any concerns in relation to the EcoPass program as presented by staff.

Director Solano said that it is good that we are trying to level the playing field to get more riders.  He can see the complications and the disproportion for low income riders as they are not able to benefit from the EcoPass program discount.  He would not like to see this come into a lawsuit.  He is also unsure that any low income riders would participate at the Local Government meeting later in the week.

Chair Sisk appreciates the fact that Bruce Abel and Lacy Bell have been educating staff, the Directors, and the public.  He shared his frustration about the lack of SmartCard data.  He gave credit to CH2M Hill for coming up with a basis of information that can be used to calculate usage.  He said that part of the frustration is not knowing how many EcoPass program participants actually utilize the passes.  He said that the next Board of Directors dealing with the EcoPass program will hopefully have more information as they will have SmartCard data.  He would like to deal with the EcoPass program and then concentrate the efforts on those who depend on transit for transportation.

Director Lubow said that the University Station Senior Housing EcoPass program sounds like a great deal.  She thinks that the EcoPass program is a great idea pro-transit, pro-environment, and pro-people.  She reminded the Directors to also take care of the low income riders and to not pit the EcoPass program and the low fare-non-profit program against each other.

Chair Sisk thanked staff and the Directors for their comments.  He encouraged the Directors to contact staff with further questions.

### 1. Fare Study Eco Pass Update

##### a. 08 20 15 Detail Regarding Staff Thinking On Additional EcoPass Increase

##### b. Fare Study EcoPass Aug Study Session_FINAL

## IV. Other Matters

No other matters were presented.

## V. Adjourn

Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 6:48 p.m.