Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 7,
2012
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 9, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
August 7, 2012.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Bagley, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Gore, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, and Walker.

Board Member
Absent:
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, L. Skip Brown, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Lee Cryer,
Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter,
Brian Iacono, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Jim Starling, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer,
Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian
Welch, Susan Wood, Brian Middleton, Jane Donovan, Frank
Buczkowski, Michelle Brier, Ron Enserro, Gerry Nery, Brenda Tierney,
Chuck Culig, Kevin Flynn, John Tarbert

Others Present:

Sherman Hamilton, Bill Mosher, Gene Putman, Jacob Riger, Laura
Rinker, Jeanne Shreve, Karen Stuart, Monte Whaley, Debra Wilcox
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 8:31 p.m.

Update
Denver Union Station
Committee Chair Bagley began by stating the Bill Mosher extended his thanks to the
Board for allowing him to present on Denver Union Station early. He explained that this
would now really be an update of the building itself.
Marla Lien explained that the biggest issue with the Station building moving forward is
the Union Station Alliance team getting approval from the National Park Service for the
hotel configuration. She stated that USA presented the Board with a proposal that
estimated about $49-$51 million in renovation for the building and RTD committed a $5

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 7,
2012
Page 2 of 5

million FASTER grant for the Amtrak relocation. Marla informed the Board that our
commitment is well under way to being spent because we will be doing the Amtrak
relocation one way or another. She stated we have already spent close to $1 million
on a broiler and about $11 million out of land sale proceeds for the building. Marla
went on to explain that part of the funding package was also obtaining close to $6
million in historic tax credits that are saleable from the National Park Service. She told
the Board that USA has met with the Park Service and presented their plans but unless
the plans are approved and they get the tax credits, they will have a funding gap. They
met with the park service several weeks ago, they were told two weeks ago they
would get a letter and then told last week they would get a letter but USA still has not
received a letter from the Park Service. She told the Board that this is a fundamental
issue for the project moving forward.
Marla Lien stated that on the good new side of the project we have been turning drafts
of both a lease agreement and a work agreement for the renovation of the building.
She informed the Board that we have signed our 4th MOU with Amtrak on their space
plans so that we are moving forward with the FASTER funds and we are working on a
lease with them. Marla stated that we are moving ahead like there will be a deal but
we are still waiting to hear from the National Park Service. She explained that if the
plans are not approved for at least a 100 room building, the Union Station Alliance will
need to determine if they will appeal or what to do next.
Committee Chair Bagley confirmed that the appeal would only be filed if USA did not
get what they wanted. He also asked if there was anything to lead us to believe we
may not get the approval. Marla Lien stated that yes the appeal was based on the Park
Service not approving the plans and that the only reason to think they may not get
approved is the length of time it has taken.
Bill Sirois told the Board that USA is very interested and concerned about how the plaza
space is going to operate. He stated that the Union Station Advocates group has been
advocating for a very public space and other people have expressed interest in that as
well. He explained that staff was going to work on an outline of an abbreviated
process that would engage stakeholders and public about the use of the space. They
will be presenting the proposed process to the Board next month.
Marla Lien informed the Board that we had a visit from a team from FRA and O&B that
took an extensive tour of the DUS building. The RIFF loan is being paid back from TIF
revenue from around the station area. She explained that they wanted to see what
was happening. She stated that the development around the Station in the TIF district
is huge and everything is really being built out. She explained that is was not just
enough for FRA and O&B to read about the project or be told that the development was
happening or to even receive the checks for the loan payments in a timely manner.
They really wanted to see what was happening on the ground and were really
impressed.
Director James shared that he has been contacted by some people regarding the plazas

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 7,
2012
Page 3 of 5

and he is glad to see we are taking notice. He expressed that there are many
interested parties. He believes it will be easy to activate that space with the amount of
development that is taking place. He shared with the Board that he is in the process of
trying to gather information to quantify that development. Director James stated that
there are thousands of apartments that are either being built or on the verge of
beginning construction and that is just one use type. He expressed that is he glad to
see that we are responsible for the activation of that whole area and continue to
support it.
Ridership Model
Brian Welch and Lee Cryer provided the Board with a Power Point presentation on
the Corridor Ridership Model.
Director Tobiassen asked if this is the DRCOG software package or RTD’s software.
Lee Cryer stated that they work closely with DRCOG and use their model. Director
Tobiassen asked if they were looking at east Colfax and the future. Lee Cryer
stated that we are looking at it right now. He explained that the City and County of
Denver is doing a transit alternative study on east Colfax and RTD is working with
Denver and DRCOG on it. Director Tobiassen asked to see the results when they
were complete.
Director Tobiassen also expressed his interest in seeing the projections for the
Downtown Circulator that is being proposed. He was wondering how the numbers
would look if the was a free versus local fare service. Brian Welch stated that the
Board will be briefed on the Circulator at the September 4th meeting and they will
provide those numbers.
Director Tayer thanked the team for their responsiveness and for them including the
BRT numbers. He believes that we need to normalize BRT as part of the overall
system. He also stated that he often gets requests not just for ridership models but
also to see the miles traveled. Director Tayer asked if staff could put together a
similar graph with the miles traveled as he believes it would be very informative for
people to see.
Director Gore requested the ridership model for the North Metro line as if it was
operating today. Brian Welch said they would put that together.
Director Walker shared with the Board that in previous experiences he did not run
the models but helped put them together. He explained that little changes like
whether or not there is a sidewalk, if there is a curb cut in the sidewalk, lane width,
etc. can affect the models. Director Walker also explained that when jurisdictions
make changes to land use plans that affect the population density around the
station that can really help the argument for a transit system. He stated that as can
be seen from the chart on Page 9, the Northwest corridor has very light ridership.
He explained that the low population density does not help a transit system operate
at its efficiency. Director Walker suggested that as the Board members are

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 7,
2012
Page 4 of 5

speaking with their constituents, they should inform them that building up the area
around the stations will help with ridership.
Director James stated that there was a phenomenon in the paper a few years ago
about station area plans and the effect those had on projections. He thought it
would be useful to understand the impact of transportation oriented development.
Director James also stated that the increased zoning in the station areas have
caused the forecasts for ridership to be larger in the North Metro area. He asked if
staff could provide the Board with some information to illustrate these ideas to
constituents. Brain Welch told the Board that one of the action items in the memo
they would be receiving is to work with jurisdictions in the North to promote that
very kind of development around our planned stations to maximize the ridership. He
stated that there is a very strong demonstrated relationship between certain types
of ridership and development.
Lee Cryer explained that I-225 is a good example of where ridership forecasts have
changed substantially. The forecasts have gone up and one of the main reasons
was RTD, Aurora, and DRCOG working together to change the land use forecasts
around Fitzsimmons and Aurora City Center.
Director Anderson reiterated the effect that Aurora’s efforts regarding Fitzsimmons
had on the ridership. She also stated that is has taken at least 15 to 20 years for
that to happen and these efforts do not happen overnight.
Committee Chair Bagley stated that he understood that there is a new model we
had worked on with DRCOG that was funded by the Federal Government through
the FTA. Lee Cryer said that we are still working on it but yes, we are working with
DRCOG on a new model and there is federal funding involved.
Committee Chair Bagley expressed that he thought it would be helpful to see the
previous numbers and forecasts. He stated that in 2004 the ridership numbers were
much lower and he believe it important to see the before and after. Committee
Chair Bagley explained that understanding and seeing the differences was one of the
reasons that the North Metro corridor really became involved. He requested having
2004, 2008 and 2010 with where the forecasts are now. He stated that he
believes this demonstrates a trend and the reason for that trend is that the
comprehensive plans for each of these jurisdictions have changed dramatically.
Committee Chair Bagley explained that he believes it is really important for the
Board, stakeholders, and the public to understand how the forecasts have changed
and that if they want federal funding they need to get ridership up.
Director Gore asked if these ridership estimates included only residents that live
within the RTD district or do they include Weld County commuters who might use a
North Metro station. Lee Cryer stated that the estimates include Southwest Weld
County. Director Gore also asked if these estimates are what the system as
proposed would have the capacity to carry or if this is the capacity of everyone who

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, August 7,
2012
Page 5 of 5

would want to ride. Brian Welch explained that these were the capacity of demand.
Director Walker asked if we sued North Front Range or NPO household/ridership
surveys to gather data. Lee Cryer stated that we use surveys from the Denver area
specific to DRCOG.
II. Other Matters
Director James shared with the Board that he had been working with Brian Iacono on
the format of the GM report. He stated that Brian was working on a model and that if
there were no objections he would like to use the format going forward.
Committee Chair Bagley reminded the Board of the General Manager’s Performance
Survey for the second quarter. He asked that all Board members that had yet to
complete the survey to please do so. He stressed the importance of having a broad
spectrum of evaluations.
III. Next Meeting Date – September 4, 2012
IV. Adjourn
Committee Chair Bagley adjourned the meeting at 9:03 p.m.

