2023-01-18
Audit Committee Meeting
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll get started here. The Wednesday, January 18 Audit Committee will now come to order.
We are convened as of 2 o'clock PM. And I would respectfully ask anyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you for joining this afternoon.
Please note that until further notice, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely
via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings along with the unofficial minutes
of the meetings will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com,
and a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
today's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate
that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, plus press star
6. I'd like to now call the roll for the committee members. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Jim Brendel?
JIM BRENDEL: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: And John Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: I see for the record that we have five members of the Audit Committee present. We're
starting out here because I was Chair of the Ad Hoc Committee, of which Directors Davidson and Dishell
were participants with support from our capable RubinBrown staff. We just decided to kick this off and
transition to our full committee meeting by first electing officers.
But first, because we are kind of new and this is a hybrid committee, I would like to take a moment to have
each Director introduce themselves and say a few minutes about themselves. And also, I'd like to have
Matt Marino and Dave Haronik from RubinBrown do the same. For the record, we also have Director
Tisdale, who's the Chair of our Finance and Planning Committee meeting joining us.
We have the Chair of our Board, Lynn Guissinger, joining us. And then we have staff. We have Melanie
Snyder, our General Counsel. We have Jillian Knapp-Rhodes from the Board Office. We have Tai-Shrae
Parish. We have Brandy Hunter. We have Marie Snell. And we have Doug MacLeod-- excuse me, Doug.
So we have quite a few people on the call today, and I think that will help. And I would like to say that as
we move forward in the discussion, those Directors who are not members of this Audit Committee-- but that

may want to weigh in-- certainly, we'll take your comments. So going around the horn here, Erik Davidson,
would you like to start?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Director Catlin. Much appreciated. So for the sake of Jim and John,
first of all, it's great to meet you here. Thank you for joining this committee and embarking on what's going
to be a very new endeavor for the agency. This has been quite the work in process, and we're glad to have
you here. So for your purposes and for the sake of the record, I'll give just a brief introduction to myself.
I am the RTD Director for District I. District I is in the northern region of the RTD. It includes Broomfield. It
includes Longmont. It includes Lafayette, the part of Erie that is within the district, as well as a small part of
Thornton and some unincorporated Adams and Boulder County-- so kind of a large area up here. I like to
say my district is actually shaped like the letter it is. It's kind of an I up here.
I have been on the Board for two years now going into my third year. I had started off heavily involved in
our Finance and Planning Committee, which I had the opportunity to Chair last year. Also worked very
closely with Director Catlin here in the capacity of the Ad Hoc Audit Committee to reconstruct our audit
function and Audit Committee, which is why we're getting started here.
And this year, I'm serving on the Executive Committee of the Board as our Second Vice Chair. So with that,
it's wonderful to meet the both of you. And we're very grateful for your service and joining us here. I know
you've been given a background in terms of why we're here, and we went through the process of
interviewing and selection. But for the sake of the record, great to have you joining us here on the Audit
Committee. So with that, I'll hand back to Director Catlin here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Director Davidson. I'm going to call on Director Dishell next. And I believe that
he is out of state and unable to join us via video. But he is present via audio. So Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Catlin. I really appreciate the opportunity to be here today. Bobby
Dishell-- I am the Director for District D. I actually moved to the district because it matched my last name.
That was a joke-- not really. That's not why I picked the neighborhood. South Denver, northern part of
Littleton, a little sliver of Lakewood, Sheridan, Bow Mar, Englewood-- and so that is where I am.
I spent the last year on the Ad Hoc Audit Committee with Directors Davidson and Catlin, really focusing on
the internal IIA standards-- Institute of Internal Auditors-- which we used to help craft both the Audit
Committee charter as well as the Internal Audit Committee charter. I'm working with RubinBrown as well.
And I'm very happy to be here with you all. I spend my day in private practice as an attorney, primarily in
the corporate real estate and renewable spaces.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Dishell. Now, let's move on to our new committee members. I'll start
with-- let's see. Who would like to go first? Let's go with John Olenberger first.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Sure. So I'm John Olenberger. I am the President of CICM. We are an internal audit
and business process consulting firm. Just a brief background on me. I started my career at Arthur Andersen
in Boston in their external audit practice. I am a CPA originally licensed in Massachusetts and now licensed
in Colorado, worked external audit, then transitioned into internal audit with Arthur Andersen before leaving
to do three years of internal audit with Waste Management, and then left to join KPMG's business process
for its consulting group doing internal audit with KPMG.

And then I broke off and started my own firm doing internal audit. And have been doing that for 14 years.
In that capacity, I sometimes serve as the Chief Audit Executive for various organizations which we are the
outsourced internal audit function for. And currently, I hold that role for Poudre School District up in Fort
Collins. And happy to be on the Audit Committee. I also live-- as I mentioned before we started, I live in
Central Park. So I'm fairly close to downtown and the RTD's offices.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, welcome, John. Jim Brendel.
JIM BRENDEL: Sure, thank you. I've been in the Denver area since 1979 and in the public accounting
practice all of that time-- started with what was then Coopers & Lybrand, which is now part of PWC. Then I
went to a local firm, Hein & Associates-- spent about 30 years there, and then we merged with regional firm
Moss Adams five years ago.
My client service role was as an audit partner. So I worked on audit engagements with various types of
clients, spent a lot of time interfacing with audit committees, which is one of the reasons that, when I retired
about a year and a half ago, I thought this might be a good place for me to give back working on audit
committees. So I'm on a couple of not-for-profit audit committees, as well as other board seats for not-forprofit entities, and very much looking forward to getting this Audit Committee going and working with all of
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm going to go to our consultants and our internal audit function staff, for lack
of a better description Matt, would you like to start out?
MATT MARINO: Sure. I'm Matt Marino. I'm the Engagement Partner with RubinBrown. I'm in the Denver
office, and so I lead the outsourced internal audit function for RTD as part of the contract with RTD. And
I'm joined by Dave Haronik. And he's the main Manager that's been serving on the engagement. And he's
out of our Chicago office. And we've worked with RTD for a little bit over a year and a half from a consulting
role and then transitioned into the outsourced internal audit and have worked very integrally with both the
Directors and management to get to where we are now with a new sitting Audit Committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Matt. Dave, you're up next.
DAVE HARONIK: Hi. Good afternoon. Yeah, Dave Haronik-- as Matt mentioned, I'm in the Chicago office- Manager. Came on to RubinBrown about a year and a half ago, and prior to that, I was with a company
that I actually stood up the internal audit function at. So, good experience there, and hope to bring that to
RTD. And really love internal auditing. I consider myself an internal audit geek. I think I've said it before.
I've done it my whole career, even as an internship in college-- even joined the Institute of Internal Auditors
in college. So I don't know who could say that they did that. But looking forward to working with you all.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Dave. I guess I'll conclude these introductions. I'm Peggy Catlin. I was Chair of
the Ad Hoc Audit Committee. And I represent District N, which is the largest geographic district in all of
RTD. Next month, I guess, it will be that I will have had five years of experience on the RTD Board having
been appointed to fill a vacancy and subsequently being elected in 2018.
And very early on as a new Director, I started delving into the internal audit function of RTD. And I became- I guess concerned would be the best phrase to say-- and really pushed. I called myself the Don Quixote
of internal audit for RTD because just really trying to get some movement in making this audit function as
a function that was adhering to standards and best practices.

And I'm just really, really pleased to say that we are getting started now after a long, uphill battle. So
welcome, all of you. I neglected to say that I'm probably the senior person of this group. I know Jim said he
was retired. I have lived in Jefferson County for 39 years in the same neighborhood and have really seen
changes in the Denver Metro area.
I did, however, grow up in Fort Collins and was a byproduct of the Poudre R-1 School District, having
graduated from Fort Collins High School. And I would add that Director Davidson spent a little bit of time in
the same school district. So we have that in common, the three of us.
So thank you all for the introductions. It's nice that we can get to know each other. I'm going to turn this
over to Matt Marino from RubinBrown, who is going to discuss the conflict-of-interest statements. Matt,
you're on mute.
MATT MARINO: See, I muted myself inadvertently. Sorry about that. So I just wanted to discuss conflictof-interest statements. We'll collect signed conflict-of-interest statements from all the members of the Audit
Committee. But at this time, we want to make sure there were no conflicts of interest that we need to be
aware of. I'm not aware of any conflicts of interest.
So conflicts of interest being defined as you have a personal interest in a business, whether it be ownership
or investment in a business, that does business with RTD or thereof. And then I want to make sure there
are no matters that need to be disclosed. And we'll collect signed conflict-of-interest statements from each
Audit Committee member.
PEGGY CATLIN: Matt, when do you anticipate administering those or sending those out?
MATT MARINO: I'll send those out right after this meeting. And we'll get those collected in time for future
meetings. So if a matter were to come up in the future where there is a conflict of interest, that member of
the Audit Committee could either abstain from discussion, and we would be aware of that conflict of interest.
PEGGY CATLIN: Very similar to what we do as Board Directors for RTD. Any questions about that topic?
Good, thank you. Moving on to Item D, we're going to select the Committee Chair and Vice Chair. As I
mentioned earlier, since I was last year's Ad Hoc Committee Chair, I'll facilitate this election. And once both
seats are filled, I'll turn the meeting over to the new Committee Chair.
Unlike our Executive Committee election process, which Board members are familiar with-- but I'm not sure
our new Audit Committee members are-- that uses a secret ballot for election of Board offices. But for this
committee leadership, we'll proceed with open nominations, discussions, and a vote by all five members of
the committee. We'll begin with selection of the Chair and then Vice Chair.
And we do allow up to three minutes for those Board members who nominate a candidate, and also if there
are any seconds to the nominations and any other members who wish to speak regarding the candidates.
I'll then call for a vote. And the candidate with the most votes will be appointed. So if only one Director is
nominated, we may proceed by acclamation and that Director will be appointed.
I'm going to take some Acting Chair privilege here and open up the nomination with my nomination of
Director Bobby Dishell. And my reasons for nominating Bobby-- they are numerous. But when we started
the Ad Hoc Committee, the Chair of the Board of Directors of RTD at the time really only wanted two on the
Ad Hoc Committee. And I pushed to have three.

And Director Dishell had expressed some very, very thoughtful concerns and issues about our internal
audit, primarily because of the state's audit that came out. And I thought he had really taken this seriously,
and I wanted him to apply his talents to Ad Hoc Audit Committee. And he exceeded my personal
expectations of really delving into the issues and providing thoughtful comment and input as we moved
forward on this.
And I'm very grateful for all of the work that he put in. And I appreciate his intellect and his integrity. And I
just really would hope that he would accept this nomination. Do I hear a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Couldn't agree more.
PEGGY CATLIN: What?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Couldn't agree more.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any-- is there any discussion about this? I might ask if there are any objections
to having Director Dishell serve as our Chair? I don't see anything. One of the things that I would comment
on is that the three of us RTD Directors have worked together in concert on this effort.
And throughout our 12-month process, I think we've really built up a collaborative group, and we've really
operated under a model of trust. And I look forward to establishing that trust with our two new members as
well. But I just wanted to make that comment that I'm really looking forward to this collaborative and collegial
effort. So congratulations, Director Dishell. You are our new Audit Committee Chair. I'll also open up the
floor for nominations for Vice Chair.
I am to understand that our outside committee members in this first year, until they become comfortable
with how we proceed with this Audit Committee, would not be comfortable serving as either Chair or Vice
Chair. It had been our thought that we could alternate-- have one Board member and one outside committee
member serve as Chair and Vice Chair and then swap the following year.
But given this is the first year, and we're trying new things, I guess we can go ahead and have two Directors
as Chair and Vice Chair. And for that reason I would-- oh, Mr. Brendel, please feel free to chime in.
JIM BRENDEL: Thank you, Director Catlin. So my opinion was, being new, I wouldn't be comfortable as
Chair. And I'm really happy with the Chair you've selected. I'm not volunteering, but if you would like to split
that up, I would be comfortable being Vice Chair if that's what you would like to do. I'm also happy waiting
a year.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I really appreciate that. Directors Dishell and Davidson, your thoughts on
that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Dr. Catlin. I think there's benefit, given that we are doing this new
structure, with having an internal Director and an outside committee member serve in having one of each
in terms of Chair/Vice Chair. So I would just offer those thoughts. And if Mr. Brendel is interested in this, I
think this is service. And I'm all too happy to nominate someone who's willing to step up. So those are my
thoughts on the matter and happy to defer to Committee Chair Dishell as well.

PEGGY CATLIN: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Thank you. Yep, I agree all around. I think it'd be great to have you. I think
providing an outside committee member voice is important, I think, for two reasons. One, Directors Catlin,
Davidson, and I have been sort of deep in it in both a narrow and broad scope-- but sort or mile deep in a
lot of small holes. And it'd be great to have, especially at the Vice Chair level, leadership that has not been
so narrowly focused and can come into it with fresh eyes. So to the extent you're willing, I would be happy
to nominate you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, I will take that as a nomination. And I would gladly second that. And this makes me
extremely happy that we can proceed along these lines. So thank you for your willingness to serve-JIM BRENDEL: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: --Mr. Brendel. Do I hear any objections? Well, it looks like we have our Vice Chair by
acclamation. So congratulations to both of you. And now, I will turn the meeting over to Director Dishell to
proceed. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Catlin. And thank you all for the confidence to help lead this
committee. I'm going to turn it over to Matt Marino to lead the discussion around the Audit Committee
calendar-- Item B on our agenda.
MATT MARINO: Thank you, Chair Dishell. And I appreciate the time to talk to you all about the calendar.
So at this time, the calendar is not necessarily set other than we know there are several meetings that we
do want to achieve throughout the year. So per our charter we are bound to meet at least five times. We
can meet more if we'd like. But there's a couple of key things that we need to make sure we get on our
calendar and schedule out.
Because this is the Audit Committee for RTD, the Audit Committee not only monitors the internal audit
function but also is responsible for monitoring the external audit function of RTD. And so the external auditor
for RTD, Plante Moran, has asked to present to the Audit Committee their pre-audit discussion. And so
we're looking to achieve that in February of 2023. So we'll work on coming to an agreement with the Audit
Committee members to find a date that works not only with the Directors and the committee members but
also Plante Moran.
And also at that February meeting, we're hoping to present a updated risk universe and proposed 2023
internal audit plan. We are in the process of updating the risk universe surveys and responses from
management and Directors. And we are hoping to bring that back to the committee for approval of an audit
plan in, hopefully, mid-to-late February so that we can proceed with some audits throughout the year and
provide those reports back to the committee throughout the year.
The other item under that-- we are proposing something that was on the preliminary audit plan. We had
originally in the first risk assessment looked at the ITGC, or IT general controls. And so we are going to ask
for preliminary permission to proceed with scoping out the IT general controls internal audit and bring that
back to you all in February for a final approval to proceed with completing that audit and reporting back to
you as well.

So that kind of fits under that risk universe proposed internal audit plan. Why is ITGC being selected? RTD
is in the process of evaluating their accounting software or their enterprise software. Currently, they use
Oracle. And in the next 12 to 24 to maybe even 36 months, a new software vendor will be selected.
And in discussions with management and the Audit Committee members, it sounded like it was a good idea
to understand where we stand from an IT general controls perspective with the current system so that we
can scope out the requirements for some future system and make sure that we understand where our areas
that we might want to have enhancements to controls and where our areas that we have some as far as
must-haves in the controls realm. And so that's why we thought scoping out an audit and presenting it to
you in February would be a good place to start with auditing because IT general controls is important to all
organizations, and it continues to be important for RTD.
Starting in April and May, we'll need to be prepared to check back in with the external auditor for RTD in
order for RTD to meet its Annual Comprehensive Financial Report filing deadline of June 30, 2023, as well
as getting the results for the financial audit and single audit. That would be done in April or May in time for
the Audit Committee to be able to report to the Finance and Planning Committee and the Finance and
Planning Committee to report to the full Board and accept the audit process in concert with the normal
calendar that RTD is accustomed to with their audit process.
And then we're looking to schedule some additional meetings in July or August of '23 as well as October of
'23 to report on any internal audit matters as well as any other audit matters that might come up throughout
the year, whether we receive results from different agencies that are monitoring RTD throughout the year.
Really, all items audit related will route through this Audit Committee. And the Audit Committee will be the
venue to discuss those matters in detail and make recommendations to the Board and management on
what would be some good ways to proceed based on audit results that are achieved.
And so we will be sending out a poll to make sure we get all those dates set, and so that we can adhere to
the public notice requirements through this Audit Committee as well as providing agendas and so on well
in advance of the meetings. So those are the kind of dates we're looking at and the rationale why we need
to have some certain meetings at certain times in order to fit into the needs for RTD. Any questions with
regard to that calendar or any other matters I discussed?
Yes, Director Davidson. I think I saw your hand first.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Matt. Thank you for going through all that. It makes sense. And I know
we've had a chance to discuss this. I know one thing we had been discussing was the refreshed risk
universe. And you're going through those interviews with management and Board. How at risk are we in
terms of having that by February? I know you mentioned that we'd like to have that, if possible, by then. But
just curious where we are in the process, and if you wouldn't mind, just clicking into that a little bit.
MATT MARINO: Yes. So we're in the process of scheduling the interviews with management and the Board.
We do have a little bit of control because we put deadlines on when we want the responses back by. So
we are intending to set that early enough in February as to provide enough time to provide their feedback,
but also give us the time to accumulate the results and present it to you all. Dave, did you have anything
that I missed on that response?
DAVE HARONIK: Yeah, I think that the biggest time frame that would make that be at risk would be the
timing of the survey. So once we have interviews-- conducted the interviews-- we would update that risk

universe, have people rank where they feel certain risks are in their opinion, and then we would compile all
that.
So I think if we kept it open for a week, which I believe is a reasonable time frame, we'll be able to get
similar results as far as survey completion as we did with management and the Board last time. And if we're
able to keep it to a week, I think we can meet these deadlines.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you for the additional details. That's all.
MATT MARINO: Yes, Director Catlin. I think you might be on mute now.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just realized that. I didn't my fingers. Along those lines, to encourage both management
and other Directors for their participation in this, I would ask staff, particularly Doug MacLeod. And you can
work with GM/CEO Johnson to encourage prompt participation from staff.
And similarly, I would impose upon Chair Guissinger from our Board, as well as Director Dishell as Chair of
this committee, to maybe put out a memo to encourage our fellow Board members to participate and
stressing the importance of this activity. That's just a comment I had.
And then one other thing-- and maybe Doug MacLeod could help me with this-- I'm not sure if we're going
to be asked to give any kind of presentation to the State Legislative Audit Committee this year on any of
our initiatives or our progress to date. But we may well want to hold that in the background as something
we may need to do during this session. It may well wait till next session, but that's a possibility.
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, Doug MacLeod. May I respond?
PEGGY CATLIN: Bobby?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good, thank you. Thank you for the question, Director Catlin. Yes, my discussions with
the Office of the State Auditor was that RTD is done making any formal responses based on that audit.
There will be occasional follow-ups from the OSA to just check on the status of our progress. However,
there will be no more formal responses to the State Legislative Audit Committee or otherwise regarding this
issue unless something were to occur.
We are slated, I believe-- the OSA has to do a performance or financial audit of RTD every five years. And
I think we've got another one probably coming up in 2024. So nothing on the books yet. We also have-- we
will have a triennial audit from the FTA in 2024. Those are the only unusual or non-recurring, so to speak,
audits that I'm aware of at this point.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I appreciate that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair. Just to follow up on that, Doug, so if the Office of the State Auditor
has some check-ins, as you said, just for some basic follow-up, who has accountability in terms of
responding or fielding questions right now? As liaison of the function, are you planning to do that, Doug?
Do you need the committee to be involved and the Chair to prepare a statement? How would you like to
proceed with that?

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Director Davidson-- great question. And up to this point, since the Audit
Committee wasn't fully formed-- so I was the point person that was collecting information or responding
back to the Office of the State Auditor. I think that's a great point that going forward that it should come
through the Audit Committee-- any of those communications. Previously, obviously, those responses went
through our General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson. But it makes sense that if we have anything like
that that would have to do with audits that we bring it through the Audit Committee. And I can coordinate
that through our General Manager.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That sounds great, Doug. Thank you. That's great. I guess we'll take that as it comes on
an ad hoc basis. But I think that sounds like a good procedure. Thanks.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I just have a quick question for Doug as well. If I understand this correctly, it's the
state has to audit us at least every five years, which means there's a world in which they restart in next
month-- they restart in 2024. Do you happen to know how much notice they give us prior to instituting one
of those audits that this committee, should we need to, can come together and address that?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, thank you for the question, Chair. And I'll have to refer to my notes. I know that
the lead of the State Auditor gave us a tentative year of when they would do that. And they usually give us
about six-months notice. I believe it is 2024, but I'm not sure because I believe most of these audits get
scheduled through the State Legislative Audit Committee.
And the OSA actually recommends when those audits should occur. And so this particular lead auditor just
gave me a heads-up that they thought the cycle would be, I believe, in 2024. But I can, through the Board
office, provide that information back to this body, if that's OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Absolutely. That's great. And I think it's something for us to think through as we get
towards the tail end of this year prepping for what appears to be a 2024 audit-- external audit. Director
Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Dishell. I just recall when we did present to the State Legislative Audit
Committee back-- I think it was 2019 or '20-- 2019-- there was one legislator who expressed a desire to
have an interim update given the audit findings.
So that's all I was trying to be prepared for, in the event that-- I don't know if that legislator is still on the
Audit Committee. But I know there had been some interest in at least getting an update from us. That was
the only reason I brought that up. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Mr. Chair, Doug MacLeod. May I respond quickly?
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, Director Catlin, that is true. We did provide a written update. And then
the OSA actually provided that update to the Legislative Audit Committee on our progress. As you may
recall, for each recommendation we had set certain milestones and dates of when we were going to
accomplish certain things. We did report back on that. It's been a year or so, I believe. I believe General
Manager Johnson shared that response. And I have that if you are interested in seeing that again. The
response from the OSA was that there was no further action needed-- that the Legislative Audit Committee
was satisfied with our progress.

PEGGY CATLIN: If I might ask for you to redistribute that response. I do recall reading it and seeing it. But
our new committee members-- our outside committee members-- may not have seen that. So I would
appreciate that. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Will do. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Anything else on schedule before we move on to other matters? And just to tie a nice
neat bow on this-- yeah, Matt, go ahead. I saw you came off mute.
MATT MARINO: I was just going to respond, Director Dishell, that I had no further matters. But please
watch your email for the survey response so that we can get those dates firmed up and get all those out on
the calendar.
BOBBY DISHELL: Perfect. Thank you. Are there any other matters to discuss for this committee? The next
committee meeting is to be scheduled and will be posted in accordance with Colorado Open Meetings Act
once it is scheduled. Seeing no discussion, this meeting is adjourned at 2:37 PM. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Welcome, Jim and John. Thanks.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you, everyone. We'll see you next meeting.
JIM BRENDEL: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: See you in February. Bye.

