Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 9, 2011
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

August 10, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
August 9, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Chair Kemp; Directors Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, and Tayer.

Directors Anderson, Bagley, O’Boyle, and Riley.

Staff Present:

Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Libby Cox,
David Genova, Steve Gieske, Mike Gil, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter,
Austin Jenkins, Tyler Kealy, Amber Koch, George Kuzirian, Marla Lien,
Richard Lobato, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish,
Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Richard Petty, Jannette
Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey,
Jim Starling, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, and Phil
Washington.

Others Present:

Ed Bush – CRMCA, and Stan Groneck – ATU 1001
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 6:55 p.m. and seeing that Director
James was not readily available to present the Board Policy on
Organizational Memberships, Information items would be presented
first.

Information
 Presentation of Light Rail Roadeo
Austin Jenkins explained that the Light Rail Roadeo was a great event with a great
turnout of over 200 people. It was also turned into a job fair on an informal basis to
promote the West Corridor.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 9, 2011
Page 2 of 4

Roadeo categories were Maintainers and Operators. The 1st through 3rd place winners
for each event were as follows:
Maintainers: 1. George Sweeny
2. Kevin Steele
3. Larry (Todd) Kiel
Operators:

1. Robert Dennis
2. Carl Hall
3. Narciso Garcia

Again, thanks to all the support and participation for this event.
Director Cohen added that this was a great event, the families were invited and you
could see the pride that those individuals have in their own jobs. And, the cleanliness
of the shop is unbelievable especially considering all of the work being done there.
Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that he was at this event as well and could really
see the passion of the employees participating in the events.
 West Corridor Cutover update
Austin Jenkins added that this would be the last week of the big shut down for DUS
and the West Corridor tie in. The work so far is remarkable and we are on schedule
to finish on time. Our two contractors have done what they said they would do and
we will start operator training on Saturday morning and all integrated testing will be
completed this week.
Mike Gil explained that the bus bridges have been very interesting for us. After a very
minimal headcount the first weekend, we jumped to over 8,000 people last Saturday
and almost 10,000 on Sunday. The public is becoming more aware and comfortable
with the bus bridge and anticipate being busier next weekend. Austin Jenkins added
that the key to the success of the bus bridge is the work done by Daria Serna and
her group in getting the word out and making contact with the public. We have one
more weekend, but this will put us into great shape for years to come.
Chair Kemp added that this transition has been almost seamless and is proud of the
progress thus far. Also, Chair Kemp mentioned he was excited for the upcoming Bus
Roadeo on the 27th.
Director Daly noted that there was an accident on Speer that involved a bus servicing
our bus bridge. Mike Gil indicated that Director Daly was correct and that a car ran a
red light and hit our bus causing it to run into another vehicle. The bus driver was
injured with neck and shoulder injuries, but is home from the hospital now.
 G4S Contract Extension
David Genova indicated that this was an information item for the Board. RTD
currently has a security contract with G4S that does our security throughout the

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 9, 2011
Page 3 of 4

district. This does not require any action, but we wanted to inform the Board that we
will be exercising the option year in our current contract for 2012. During 2012 we
will be putting together a new RFP for the security program.
Director Deadwyler asked for better understanding as to what G4S does, if they are
armed, and what their authority is. John Tarbert explained that G4S provides us 100
armed security guards in uniform, they work in fixed facilities such as our building,
transit centers, and Market Street Station and they also ride our system to perform
fare checks and fare enforcement. Under our Fare Enforcement Statute they have the
right to ask for identification in order to write a ticket, but if a citizen refuses to show
an ID, G4S has no legal authority beyond that.
General Manager Washington added that the presence of an armed person makes all
the difference in the world in terms of safety, regardless of their authority.
II.

Recommended Action
 Board Policy on Organizational Memberships
Director James indicated his thanks to Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, and Carla Perez for
their input on this policy. This will help facilitate how RTD can utilize organizations
effectively to promote RTDs mission.
Director Deadwyler indicated that some organizations she might want to belong to
would not fit the criteria listed and inquired if each Director should take those funds
from their individual local budgets.
Director James explained that the Executive Committee would review each
organization but the criterion used to approve an organization is flexible.
Marla Lien noted that the bottom line criterion that isn’t flexible within our Enabling
Act states nothing in this article shall be construed as preventing the Board from
authorizing reimbursement of any director for expenses incurred that appertains to
the activities of the district. Essentially, the organization must be transit related or
relate to your functions as a Director.
Director Cohen added that Director Deadwyler brought up a good point and we could
debate what memberships benefit or detriment RTD by a respective Board member’s
involvement in certain organizations.
Director Cohen further asked for clarification with regards to categories that are not
listed in the policy which should possibly be omitted, such as religious organizations.
Director James explained that the policy was created to be flexible, but if an
organization does not fit the transit related premise it will not be approved.
Chair Kemp indicated that in the past discretion and oversight were lacking and this
puts into place oversight for accountability and is finally formalized.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on August 9, 2011
Page 4 of 4

Director Cohen added that this equates to $350 per Board member and added that as
a member of the Executive Committee, he would not vote for approval to allow one
person’s special interest to eat up over half of the allotted budget.

III.

Motion:

Director James made the motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
August 16, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed Unanimously.

Other Matters
Bruce Daly noted that Paula Perdue has been keeping the Board informed about
former Director O’Neal Quinlan. He is still in the hospital and hopefully he will recover
soon and we want him to know that he is in our thoughts.
General Manager Washington added that a Medical Marijuana Convention would be
coming to town and they want to advertise on our buses. Daria Serna indicated that
the advertisement will be on 25 buses and we have requested that the ad have an
“ad paid by” line to be visible to the public.
Committee Chair Tobiassen added that he attended his first ADA Committee Meeting
and it was very exciting. The energy was very positive, and thinks we will make an
enterprise wide positive influence on removing barriers.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – September 13, 2011

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 7:52 p.m.

