2023-09-21
Executive Committee Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: --Executive Committee. Sorry, the Thursday, September 21 Executive Committee
meeting will now come to order. We're convened as of noon on the 21st. I respectfully ask everyone
attending to mute yourself unless you're recognized to speak.
I'll call the roll first. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Treasurer Dishell. Treasurer Dishell is out and excused. Other Directors I see in
attendance, Director Guzman, Director Tisdale. Am I missing anyone?
And staff in attendance are GM/CEO Ms. Johnson and, let's see, our CFO, Doug MacLeod, Ms. Polege,
Mr. McKay and Mr. Davies, Ms. Snell, Ms. Parish, Ms. Knapp-Rhodes, and Mr. Kroll, and now our
General Counsel as well. I don't think I've missed anyone.
Public comment is-- first I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand
or press star 9 on your phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any comments, direct
comments, or responses. But if you'd like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email
the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Are there any hands raised for public
comments?
JACK KROLL: Chair Guissinger, we have one hand raised at this moment. Richard Bamber is here. And
it looks like he's been unmuted.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi there. Can you hear me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We can. Go ahead, Mr. Bamber.
RICHARD BAMBER: Good afternoon, everybody. I want to speak about this proposal to limit Board
meeting lengths and say that I fully understand the desire to do this. But I would say, you don't need to do
it this way. There are other ways you can keep your Board meetings under four hours.
We know that this has come in the aftermath of that infamous June Board meeting, where there was two
things that really happened there. One, there was an hour of public comment, where the public really, and

the operators, let you know what was actually going on on the light rail system. There's a simpler thing to
that. We need to address those issues.
The second thing was was there was a lot of amendments from a code of conduct being done in the main
Board meeting. The bylaws are written in a way that promotes amendments and resolutions being done
in committees, using the committee system. It needs just three-- it asks for three Director actions to put
things on agendas, committee votes. So by the time something gets to a full Board meeting, it should be
pretty polished and it should be going through quite quick.
I would urge chairs of committees and the Board Chair to, while they have privileges to put things on
agendas, use that sparingly. Use that only when you really need to. Use the guardrails that the bylaws
already have in place.
You know, it's interesting this action today is a discussion item. And then the plan is to take it away
behind closed doors, and then we'll next see it as a member of the public when it pops into the Board
meeting. My question is is why is that not coming back next month at this very committee as an action
item to be voted on?
And then the idea being is if something is problematic, won't get Board support, it will fail in committee,
which is much better for everyone and gets you to your desired aim of keeping Board meetings, which
generally only do run two to three hours, making sure that 100% of those meetings will be two to three
hours and you guys all will get home at a reasonable time. Thanks very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. And we'll be discussing this item later in the meeting, so
you're welcome to listen to that, of course.
All right. Are there any other hands or anyone in the queue?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Guissinger, we have Chris Nicholson has raised their hand as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Mr. Nicholson, if you can state your name, please, and you have three
minutes. Thanks for coming.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thanks, Chair Guissinger. My name is Christopher Nicholson. I am a resident of
RTD District A. And the reason I'm weighing in is actually on the item on today's agenda on survey
research. One of the-- sorry, one of the measures that, when I had looked previously at the public opinion
survey that had been done on ridership opinions and the needs of both riders and the community at large
that I found lacking in that survey was any more detailed information beyond top lines.
So any kind of cross tabs on demographic information, any more detailed understanding, for the sake of
the public, or, I'm assuming for you guys as well, that allowed those of us who had access to it to
understand what subgroups within the RTD community, and outside of it, would be most motivated and
most affected. And I didn't think that that survey really captured those distinctions well, or at least that
wasn't part of the public data.
The other piece that I'd add to that is in that survey, it primarily focused on riders to the exclusion of-there was a section on community but it wasn't terribly detailed and the questions asked were not terribly
thorough. And so it was hard for me to understand, for example, what products were-- what were the
things about RTD that were not being offered that the potential riders, that people who might want to ride
were most looking for. It was more just general satisfaction.

And the reason I bring that up in the context of this is that this measure is going to be addressing revenue
and fare products that you guys are looking at to potentially appeal to new customers, I assume, and to
broaden out. And so I would strongly encourage you to do more outreach in terms of the thinking of the
people in the community, not just as stakeholders from a public perspective, but also as stakeholders,
also as potential customers, that RTD's riders are one group of people who might want to buy a fare
product, but there are a lot of people out there who are not currently in that group who are potential riders
whose voice should matter in detail and not just be lumped in with all the people who basically will, I don't
want to say never ride RTD, but for whom RTD is not a serious consideration.
And so I would encourage you to make a distinction there in the potential riders category and be thinking
expressly and specifically about how you're going to develop the survey to reach out to those people in
detail rather than just as part of a broader survey. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Mr. Nicholson. We appreciate the comments.
OK. Anything further for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Chair Guissinger, there are no additional hands raised at this time. The only other item I
would add is we did receive a letter from Greater Denver Transit which was transmitted to the Board prior
to the meeting this afternoon.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. All right. There are two recommended actions this afternoon. As a
reminder for the committee, staff, and anyone watching or listening to the meeting, any action items that
are passed by the Executive Committee, even if the vote is unanimous, will be included on the Board
agenda under recommended actions. So the full Board will have the opportunity to discuss the measure
presented. The draft Board agenda outline has these listed under Unanimous Consent, but for the Board
agenda they will be listed under Recommended Actions.
The first action is the pass through carbon reduction grant. And the action is for the Board of Directors to
authorize an expense appropriation to effectuate a pass through grant from the state of Colorado to the
City and County of Denver, or CCD, in the amount of $5 million for the Colfax Avenue Bus Rapid Transit,
BRT, project. Do we have a motion and a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I heard First Vice Chair Catlin as the movant and Second Vice Chair Erickson
for the second.
I'd like to ask Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, to present this item. It's just you, correctly, is
that correct, Doug?
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct, yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Guissinger, and good afternoon. So this item essentially is a grant
appropriation received by the City and County of Denver to make Colfax Avenue enhancements, as the

Chair described. This is an FTA grant. RTD is a direct recipient of that FTA grant. So it's simply a pass
through where RTD will receive the grant funding, pass it through to the City and County of Denver.
Why this needs a Board action approval is because the Board approves and appropriates all expenses
and expenditures. So in order to follow our budgetary controls, we need to be able to reflect that this
expenditure going back out to the City and County of Denver has been appropriated by the Board.
There's no financial impact at all to RTD from this action item. And I'd be happy to take any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Are there any questions for Mr. MacLeod or any discussion on this
item?
Great I will go ahead and ask for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? OK. With four yes votes,
zero no votes, and zero abstentions, the motion passes.
The second item on our recommended actions is public opinion polling consultant summary scope of
work approval and contract authorization. This is for the Board of Directors to approve the summary
scope of work for solicitation and to subsequently authorize the General Manager and CEO to enter into a
contract for consulting services for strategic advice, development of a survey instrument, and public
opinion polling related to revenue diversification and RTD finances. Do we have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Director Davidson.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And a second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. We have Director Davidson. Did I call you Erickson earlier? Sorry. I was
just mushing your names together. We have Director Davidson as the movant and Director Sloan as the
second.
Michael Davies, Government Relation Officer, could you please present this item?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Good afternoon, Chair, members of the committee. Michael Davies,
Government Relations Officer, and presenting this recommended action.
As you all may recall, and a bit of background on this, during the May 9 Finance and Planning Committee
meeting, there was a discussion item discussed titled, The Board Retreat Summary. One of the goals
outlined in that Board retreat summary, which was from the Board retreat on March 25, 2023, was to seek
to shore up RTD's financial position and outlook with a policy goal to create long-term sustainable and
resilient funding model.
Earlier this month, during the September 12 Finance and Planning Committee meeting, staff provided
some additional information to the Board with regards to a revenue diversification working group. That
working group and the Finance and Planning Committee will consider available options and develop
recommendations for the Board to consider in the coming months to create a sustainable and resilient
funding model in alignment with the agency's strategic priority of financial success.
One of the critical steps that's necessary in decision making and understanding of a viable path forward to
address potential TABOR impacts and alternative revenue sources is having reliable information on
public opinion and willingness to support a potential ballot measure. So if this is approved, staff will

prepare a solicitation seeking consulting services to accomplish several tasks related to assessing
opinions of registered voters.
Included in the summary scope, the consultant will develop and recommend an overall strategy and
timeline for completing desired polling, identify potential solutions to address financial challenges, suggest
solutions for potential additional revenue that could be used to fulfill community needs related to public
transportation, develop a methodology and polling instrument to capture a statistically valid sampling of
registered voters within the district, conduct public opinion polling of possible solutions, including polling
on specific language for any recommended potential ballot question to be considered, and then lastly,
produce a report detailing the findings and offering recommendations for Board consideration.
So with that, that concludes my remarks and happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much, Mr. Davies. Are there any questions or any discussion on this
item? Second Vice Chair Davidson, go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair Guissinger, and thank you, Mr. Davies, for walking through
that. I'm curious. I know that this is really to go to solicitation. We will have to wait to see what kind of
work and work plans we would receive. But I'm wondering if either Mr. Davies or Ms. Johnson, just based
on your experience, if you have any thoughts or expectations around how a project might be phased?
And the reason for my question is, we're headed into the next legislative session here, and just thinking
about if there's interest, if the legislature is talking about potential bills related to funding of transportation,
would you foresee having a phased project where we would prioritize some deliverables ahead of others?
And just even an overall sense of phases and timeline. I recognize we're really early, but just really
looking to your past experience and thoughts just to get a little bit more of an understanding around that
timeline would be really helpful.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Ms. Johnson, you have your hand up.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you very much, Second Vice
Chair Erickson-- oh, my goodness, I did that. See what you did, Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's catching.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Second Vice Chair Davidson. So basically, this will lay the foundation for us
as we go forward. First, we have to understand what's the problem for which we're trying to solve for. So
what's important about us going forward with this solicitation is creating a framework so we can garner a
better understanding. And how we phrase this, having a strategist, we need to develop a strategy and
then be highly communicative.
So as we talk about what could occur in the legislature, this will help us better understand the path in
which we're taking by polling to help shape those questions and then utilize that information upon relaying
it to the Board for your direction, your collective direction, to discern what the path may be. So does it
appear to be optimal for us to take any steps in 2024, recognizing there's other entities perhaps vying to
do something of a similar nature? And so this may give us an opportunity to rally around with other
initiatives, if that provides us a framework in which to do.

So really, we won't have an understanding until we first identify a consultancy that can help and then
basically shape the path forward. I'll yield the floor to Mr. Davies as well, because we both have
experience in other places.
But really, we are starting at ground zero, whereas at least in my experience, we already had an
understanding of about what the task was and it was more clearly identified, i.e. building projects to
accommodate the 2028 Olympics, so we know what we had to do. So that was already shaped. It was
basically getting people to rally around to see if there was a willingness to devote additional resources to
ensure that the city of Los Angeles could put on its best face while hosting the Olympic Games.
That's what I would offer up. And I'll yield the floor to Mr. Davies, if he would like to share his experience.
Thank you very much for the opportunity to offer those comments.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Mr. Davies, you have something to add?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Not much to add on. But to Director Davidson's question, I think, yes, that would
certainly be something that we would ask our consultant and seek their advice on. And really, part of the
entire process of bringing on a consultant is providing all of the background information so that they as
aware as possible of what may be coming and can offer a potential phased path that might not be
realized yet but could be realized in the near future, and that would provide a good path forward on
getting the most complete information we could.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, great. Thank you to both of you for the great answers and the additional context
on the thinking there. Really helpful. Thank you, Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're welcome. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And actually, you captured some of the concerns that I had about the
scope. And I was involved, prior to 2004, with some of the FasTracks polling. And that, much like your
experience in Los Angeles, Ms. Johnson, was very prescriptive. And this is much more amorphous,
where we're really trying to, as Director Davidson sometimes says, we're trying to build the plane while
we're flying it.
So I just appreciate your explanations and I think that that's a good strategy. Given the public comment
that we had regarding this a little bit earlier, it seems to me that we have some opportunities to shape the
questions and tweak it a little bit too as we go along to try and accommodate some of those concerns. So
that's all I had. I appreciate the explanation and also the question, Director Davidson.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. In the scope of work, it does say that they will develop a
methodology and polling instruments to capture statistically valid sampling of registered voters within the
district. Is that inclusive of those persons who are either using American Sign Language, not speaking in
English, Spanish speakers, Portuguese speakers, Vietnamese speakers, other groups that I can think of
off the top of my head that will play a pivotal role in any kind of vote that might be taken forward? And are
we very clear about that in terms of what we're looking for in a scope of work from a vendor that might be
able to provide those services? Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson.

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. So thank you, Director Guzman, for the
question. I do want to qualify that this is a summary scope of work. It's a framework. Just want to ensure
that there is an understanding that we would not be having an open and fair competition if, in fact, we are
being very prescriptive in what we're presenting to the Board for its consideration. Recognizing that we do
have a very diverse metropolitan region that basically utilizes 21 safe harbor language, as we've identified
in our language assistant program underneath, under the Civil Rights Act, we would leverage what our
past experience has been to garner a more in-depth viewpoint.
So yes, that is an option that would be available. And I don't want to speak too much because this is a
summary scope of work, as I indicated, and we will be working on documents for solicitation that would
carve that out. But we recognize the importance of diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging. So you can
be assured that we will take that into consideration-- or not in consideration, we will be leveraging that
going forward. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anything else, Director Guzman? OK, great. Thanks.
I just appreciate staff moving this forward. I think that getting this kind of strategic advice and ultimately
some polling will be really helpful for the Board and staff to decide how we move forward on some of
these TABOR and finance issues coming forward.
We have a motion and a second. Do we have any no votes on this action? With four yes votes, zero no
votes, and zero abstentions, the motion passes.
All right. September Board meeting agenda review. Sorry, was there-Before I ask for a motion to approve the September Board meeting agenda, I want to note that staff sent
an email to the full Board yesterday asking that the 2024 to 2029 mid-term financial plan item C on the
draft Board agenda be postponed until the October 24 meeting. I'd like to go ahead and pull that item, as
requested, and note, as previously mentioned, that today's action items currently listed as D and E on the
draft Board agenda will be moved to recommended action.
Additionally, I'd like to add a discussion item for September's Board meeting on the 2024 draft Legislative
and Government Relations program. Is there a motion to move the September Board agenda as
amended to the Board meeting on September 26?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved, Sloan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second, Catlin.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I hear Director Sloan as the movant, Director Catlin as the second. I think that
the mid-term financial plan then we will put on the October 24 Board meeting. And I wanted the
discussion item for the draft Legislative and Government Relations program, it's important, to bring it to
the Board as a discussion item now and that will come back to the committee and then the Board as a
recommended action in October.

All right. We have five discussion items on the agenda this afternoon. The first item is the monthly
Government Relations Report for September, 2023. Mr. Davies, you are on.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, thank you, Chair, members of the committee. Michael Davies.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JACK KROLL: Hold on. I think we need to actually have a vote to approve the agenda. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, sorry. All right. We have a motion and a second. Are there any no votes on this
action to approve the Board meeting agenda? All right. With no votes and 4 yes votes and no
abstentions, the motion passes.
OK. Now there are five discussion items. Mr. Davies, go ahead on the September report.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair. Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer. Just have a brief
Government Relations report for you.
At the federal level, really the focus is on the appropriations process and passing a continuing resolution
to keep the federal government open beyond September 30. I attended the CASTA conference last week
and the regional administrator, Cindy Terwilliger, did mention on behalf of FTA that one of the big
changes in the IIJA was that federal FTA workers and employees are not subject to the regular
appropriations process and are now funded out of the Highway Trust Fund. That was a change that was
made in the Infrastructure and Jobs Act.
And that's good news for transit grants and the formula grants, so that if the government does shut down,
they are funded out of the Highway Trust Fund, therefore continue to stay at work and are able to process
grants. And so I mention that, and Ms. Terwilliger's remarks at CASTA, just to say that grants that RTD
relies on from the formula perspective, those will be able to continue to be processed by FTA in the event
of a shutdown.
Obviously, there are other impacts, though. If a continuing resolution isn't agreed to and if the federal
government does shut down, a lot of the competitive grants are impacted and FTA will have a difficult
time being able to move forward on those without a full year's appropriation. So that's really the focus at
the federal level.
At the state level, we are really tracking the work of the interim committees, in particular the
Transportation Legislation Review Committee, TLRC. They began their work in mid-summer. At their last
meeting, on August 21, they outlined a series of bills that they are trying to advance. And the interim
committee, at least TLRC does, they get five interim committee bills that they can advance and basically
put a stamp of approval on from the joint committee and move to be prepared and ready for the beginning
of the session in January.
And so out of those, they advanced 10 bills during the August 21 meeting. During the next meeting, which
is October 3, 2023, the committee will vote on 5 of those 10 to advance. Just to note, two of them that are
transit-related, one of them is going to extend funding for the Ozone Season Transit Grant program. And
that's the grant program that funds Zero Fare for Better Air. Included in that bill is a separate track of
money that would fund Zero Fare for Youth programs, which obviously RTD is in the midst of
implementing our pilot, our one year pilot program with zero fare for youth. So this is a bill that would
potentially offer funding for continuation of zero fare for youth programs.

Second was a bill by Senator Priola and Representative Dixon that would really create a committee to
look at the potential of a statewide transit pass and include personal income tax credits related to transit
passes. So that's really the work of the TLRC. And we'll be tracking that closely and the work that they do
on October 3 and report back to the Board next month on those matters.
And then lastly, at the local level, as you all know, we work hard to make sure that we're transparent and
responsive and meet and try to develop good relationships with our local municipalities. And just want to
note a couple of events that we participated in. On August 30, GM/CEO Johnson, Board Chair
Guissinger, and myself met with the Mayor of Broomfield, the City and County Manager of Broomfield,
and other Broomfield staff to discuss enhancing partnership opportunities with them. It was a good
meeting.
And then lastly, GM/CEO Johnson, Director Whitmore, and myself participated in a study session with the
Adams County Board of Commissioners and covered the topics of the partnership program, people
power, and our Zero Fare for Youth initiative.
And with that, that ends my report and happy to answer any questions. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Davies. I see First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to make mention of the serious bike accident
that Faith Winter suffered. And I don't know if there would be an appropriate message that we could send
from the Board wishing her a speedy recovery. That was quite disturbing.
So I'm not sure that would be appropriate or not. But I just wanted to say that personally my thoughts are
with her and wishing her a speedy recovery.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks for raising that. I think we're all wishing her a speedy recovery. It sounded
very scary. It sounds like the prognosis is good, but she had some serious surgery.
Director Rosenthal had written asking about it. And Jack Kroll and I talked, and I think what we're going to
do is have a card for Board and staff to sign on Tuesday that we can send over to her. Does that sound
OK?
PEGGY CATLIN: That sounds perfect. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair. Mr. Davies, thank you for the report, as always.
First of all, thank you to Mr. Davies and Ms. Johnson and Chair Guissinger for supporting that meeting in
Broomfield. Really, really appreciate that effort. And I know that there was some juggling of schedules to
make that happen in person, which I think is always helpful. So thank you for that.
Mr. Davies, just a question regarding some of the bill concepts you were discussing when you were
discussing the TLRC. The idea for Zero Fare for Youth. Unlike the ozone funding, is the idea for that to be
then in perpetuity?

MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, Director Davidson. The way it's written in the draft bills is to be a continuous
appropriation for those programs. And so yeah, I believe I read it as really making it a permanent program
that does not sunset and hopefully receives a continuous appropriation from the General Assembly.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Awesome. OK. Thank you. That's it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. All right, Michael, you're on again for the 2024 draft Legislative
and Government Relations program, please.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Chair. Michael Davies, Government Relations Officer. This is just a
discussion item on the draft 2024 Legislative and Government Relations program. As the committee may
know, the Board approves a legislative program to give direction and guidance and allow for staff to be
effective during the legislative session, which can move quickly. It is also a document that allows for the
Board to take positions on bills and creates a process for that to happen and add items to the legislative
program throughout the legislative session.
And so before you is the draft of the legislative program. Not a lot of changes from last year. Beginning at
the federal level, there are no changes, really. And that is due to policy at the federal level is really set
through the authorization bill, the Surface Transportation Authorization Bill, which in this case is the IIJA
or BIL, bipartisan infrastructure law, or the Infrastructure and Jobs Act. That authorization bill is
authorized through federal fiscal year 2026 and really sets transportation policy at the federal level for that
period of time.
And so the work, and it's outlined in item A there, implementation of the Surface Transportation
Authorization Bill, is for to engage with our advocacy organizations, such as APTA, work closely with our
federal delegation, work closely with USDOT and track rulemakings and implementation practices that
USDOT are taking to implement any of the new policies that are outlined in the BIL. So we'll continue that.
Discretionary grants is, of course, the other one. That is not a new item. But continue advocacy tracking
discretionary grants, working with our municipal partners, working to see how we can constantly align
RTD priorities with priorities of municipalities and counties around us and see how we can leverage local
funding to apply for these federal discretionary grants and bring home the federal bacon, if you will, on the
discretionary grant side.
On the state side, no changes from last year, except for one. And that really is item E under the state
section. And that is to support legislation to provide funding for RTD's Zero Fare for Youth program. As
you all may recall, during the discussions around the system-wide fare and equity study, the Zero Fare for
Youth program was included in that, and there was certainly a desire to seek outside funding sources on
that matter. And so want to put in support for that item in the legislative program.
And as I mentioned, there is the potential and seems to be a little bit of traction with the General
Assembly that agrees with that notion of providing a little bit of funding to help support those programs
statewide going forward. And so we'll see what produces on that matter.
And then lastly, on the local section, again, no changes from last year, other than a slight change in
wording on subsection B in the local section, and that is the subregional service councils and RTD call for
project partnership program. And that was just a change from last year. We are going to stand the
program up, stand the subregional service councils up and implement the project partnership program.
And this year it is really just a change in the wording to say, we are going to continue that work, working

with our municipalities to improve that program and work closely to make sure that those subregional
service councils are effective and achieving the goals in what we laid forward and trying to create those in
the first place.
So with that, I will conclude my remarks and happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are there any questions or any discussion on this item?
I have one. First, a comment, I guess, that I think this is a really important piece to be bringing forward.
Because while we will vote to support or oppose specific legislation, this allows Mr. Davies and our
lobbyists and others to engage in initial conversations.
Michael, if the TLRC, when they get a drafted bill, do we need to wait until it's introduced before we take a
position as a Board, or could we take a soft position or something? Or what's your thought on that?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Well, certainly I think when the legislative and staff's intent to bring the Legislative
and Government Relations program for approval by the Board next month, and with the approval, it
certainly lays out intent for staff moving forward in the 2024 time frame that the Board will be supportive of
a Zero Fare for Youth program that is funded at the state level. And so that would give a lot of direction to
staff and I think our legislative advocates to speak on that topic.
But pending the actual bill itself, I mean, at the direction of the Board, we can always bring that back as a
specific bill. But really, the intent of outlining it and including it initially in this legislative program was to get
Board approval at the general concept of creating a grant program that funds Zero Fare for Youth at the
state level.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. OK. Thank you. Anyone else? OK. Thanks, Mr. Davies.
The next [INAUDIBLE] proposed bylaw amendment to set a time limit on Board meetings. Jack Kroll, the
Executive Manager of the Board Office, will introduce this item, [INAUDIBLE]
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. So the proposed language was sent around to everyone on
the Executive Committee. And that's before you. I think the purpose of our time today is really to hear
some initial thoughts and feedback on this proposed change.
One thing that I want to note relative to the public comment received earlier is the bylaws stipulate that
there must be notice provided to Board members of a forthcoming change to a bylaw no more than 10
days, or no less than 10 days prior to the meeting at which those changes are to be discussed. As such,
the intent is to bring this item back as a recommended action at the Executive Committee meeting in
October, so long as it has the support to do so from the conversation today.
But I would just note that at some point, you have to lock in your changes. If the changes become too
substantive, you may want to reconsider whether that item comes back in October for action or deferred
to November. Point being, you don't want to send language out to a Board 10 days in advance, do a
bunch of changes, and then bring it back as an action item. I don't think that would necessarily be in the
spirit of your bylaws there.
So with that, certainly open to any feedback and conversation on this item.

LYNN GUISSINGER: So just to be clear, because I don't think this is the way the little schedule is set out.
But this would come back as a recommended action-- unless there are too many changes, it would come
back to the Executive Committee as a recommended action and then to the Board as a recommended
action.
JACK KROLL: Correct. And if at the time it comes as a recommended action to the Executive Committee,
the committee makes significant changes to the proposed language, I don't think it's in line with the spirit
of how your bylaws are written that you could simply forward that along for the November meeting-- or,
excuse me, the October meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. Yeah, I think that the little outline of the schedule doesn't include coming
back to the Executive Committee. But I think we want to make sure we do that. So great.
Others with comments, questions? Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. I just would like to say, I'm supportive of this change. And I'm
appreciative of the comment we received from Mr. Bamber in the public comment section. And I think this
came up when we first discussed this a while back. And just wanted to acknowledge that thinking around
some meetings do just go long.
And something that Secretary Sloan had brought up, and I think I had discussed and we discussed this a
little while back, was that part of setting a timeline is also just forcing us into the preparation and the
efficiency of the meeting. So not many of our meetings do go over this, but it can happen. And I think
sometimes when it does go over, it's from that lack of preparation. And we get to the amendments to the
amendment to the amendment. And I think having a time limit when we're going to have a lot of agenda
items in many ways is a forcing function to ensure discipline and the preparation.
And rather than this be about getting home on time, which I know that term has come up a handful of
times, I think it's more about making sure that we're remaining efficient and that folks are fresh and
focused. So I'm supportive of this but just wanted to acknowledge I've heard other Directors and then we
did have the public comment bring up the concept of, well, we don't want to shut down discussion or
things that would be long. I don't think that's the intent. Certainly, if there's just a night that needs to go
very long, I like that we have the ability to vote to extend that. But for me, this is as much as about
meeting preparation as it is about the actual time limit itself.
So thank you. That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any other comments?
I have a couple. I appreciate your comments, Director Davidson, and I agree. I think this is a way of
helping us be more efficient. I talked with Mr. Kroll earlier. The provision that says a meeting may be
extended by a majority of present and voting Board members. Should there be a vote to extend the
meeting, such a vote must affix the time certain to adjourn.
I don't know that we necessarily need to fix a time certain. If we fixed a time certain, I guess I would want
to have the opportunity to extend it again, if we got into a good conversation that we wanted to keep
going. So I guess my recommendation would to say, may extend, may affix a time certain to adjourn,
because then the Board can decide on that.
Any other comments on that? Guess somebody could make that a motion, if-- Director Sloan.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. I agree. I think that is a good change and I appreciate you bringing that up. And
I totally agree with Director Davidson's comments. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And just a little more information. I asked the Board Office how often
this happens. We've had three meetings this year, one of which I think is a committee meeting, that went
over four hours. Two of those went over five hours. So it does happen. And I think that probably a number
of those we would extend them and continue the conversation and all of that. So I think that's an
important provision.
Can I make that amendment, Mr. Kroll, or does somebody else need to propose-JACK KROLL: Oh, no. We can accept the feedback and incorporate it into the next draft of this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. All right. Anything else?
All right. We have the Board expense policy update. Thank you to Jack Kroll and Tai-Shrae Parish, Board
Operations Manager, for providing this. Do the two of you have some comments to present on the
expense update?
JACK KROLL: Yes. I'd be happy to just walk everyone through the executive summary that was provided,
specifically the section on key proposed changes. We, I think, haven't necessarily looked at this
document in a while as a group, but it's been for four-plus years since it was last amended, or right
around four years. And so I think it's good, healthy practice to just revisit these types of things on a
regular basis and set them on a review cycle.
One of the other things that came into play as we looked at this policy was the fact that the agency has
recently redone its policy governing travel for employees. And we wanted to see if there were
opportunities in places to align the Board's policy with that of the agency.
And that is one of the key changes here is replacing out of state per meal and incidental expense
reimbursement with a per diem system that would be set by, every year there's an annual output from the
federal government's GSA unit that effectively sets the per diem reimbursement rate depending on where
someone is traveling to. And that's the system that we would recommend the Board adopt for Directors
traveling out of state. It's a more streamlined and effective system for tracking expenses. And it also, in
many senses, sets an upper limit as to what Directors can expect to be reimbursed for expenses incurred
when traveling out of state.
We had for many years been, and have, been running a practice by which the Board Office is covering
the cost of conference registration for the first two conferences of each Director, first two out of district
conferences that a Director travels to. And we felt it was most appropriate to bring dollar value amount to
that more transparently forward. We actually budget for this in the annual Board Office budgeting process
every year. So we do have a dollar amount that we could hang on that, and have done so in the proposed
changes here. And we just think that's more transparent and every Director kind of has an appreciation
and understanding.
So instead of now covering the two registrations, we would cover-- the Board Office provides funds for
directors up to $1,800 to cover registrations for out of district conferences. And that's just the budget item
that's every year has been there divided by the number of directors.

We've modernized business expenses to include changes in airfare and hotel pricing. I don't know if
you've noticed, but airlines are now sort of a la carte charging for certain things. And so we wanted to
make explicit some provisions in there for Directors to understand what would be covered as an expense.
There's been several directors since I've started who have indicated interest in obtaining an RTD cell
phone. And the process was outlined in the previous policy for how that could occur. We just are cleaning
up that language and making it more explicit.
One of the things to note is that the agency as a whole has a much more efficient way of handling
expenses for RTD issued cell phones. So for example, my cell phone that I have access to as the Board
Office Executive Manager is paid for through a centralized budget. That's a much more efficient way than
what we were using, which is a line item in our office's budget. And so that would be the system we would
move to if a Director had interest in using an RTD issued cell phone.
And then we're just more clearly identifying acceptable expenses in this policy than it had been previously
outlined in the existing policy. Then the couple other items that I want to make sure that I mentioned, we
are adding some dates in there around when expenses should be submitted for reimbursement.
There are two primary reasons for this. One is it can become a significant burden on not just Board Office
staff but accounts payable staff across the district, as we head into the end of the year end closing out a
given fiscal year's books and opening up the next year's fiscal books. And so sort of enumerating and
outlining those dates will allow for more efficient processing of Director expenses and reduce the burden
of staff at the end of the year.
Additionally, there are important IRS considerations and guidelines around timelines to seek
reimbursement. For example, if you exceed a certain number of days before requesting a mileage
reimbursement, it can actually be considered taxable income to the recipient of the reimbursement. So we
want to make sure that we're bringing the reimbursement schedules and guidelines and dates into
alignment with IRS practices on that.
And the final thing I'll mention here is, should these changes be adopted, they would take effect in
January. The idea, after this group discusses here, we would forward out to the full Board for
consideration, bring back for further discussion in October's Executive Committee meeting, and then have
it passed by the Board, or not, at the October full Board meeting. Although any changes to this policy
would not take effect until January, and that's just simply to align with the fact that we've operated for
most of this fiscal year on the existing policy and want to start with a clean sheet for next year. Excuse my
language.
And with that, that's all I got.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much.
JACK KROLL: Oh, I should say, if Tai-Shrae is on, our Board Office Support and Operations Manager,
Tai-Shrae, did you have anything to add that I might have missed on this?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, nothing to add. But I'll be happy to be here to answer any questions that might
come up on the changes.
JACK KROLL: Great.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you both. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And also, thank you, staff, Tai-Shrae and Jack. You
know, you've presented this in such an orderly fashion, but I know it was not orderly when you started
with it and I appreciate the work that you put into it. And I think in general, it's definitely an improvement
on our current practices.
I do have one suggestion. And this is in line with the intent to identify acceptable expenditures. And it has
to do with tipping. Tipping, if ever there's a slow news day, that's what a story is going to run about tipping
practices. And it's one thing dealing it with your own money, but quite another dealing it with the public's
money in RTD.
And I think it would be reassuring to add a sentence in the proposed policy change saying that there will
be updates at relevant intervals on tipping guidelines, so that-- I know you can't put one in this policy
because it seems to change frequently. But I think we don't want to be the most generous person out
there and we don't want to be the stingiest. And across the board guidelines would be really helpful. It
could be separate from this policy but referred to in the policy. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That seems like a really good suggestion. And I mentioned it earlier, Mr. Kroll. Did
you have a response, or Tai-Shrae, either one of you?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, so I think that the concern is very valid. I know that at the University of Colorado,
another large quasi state entity that has a significant amount of state funds expended in which tipping
may be an appropriate expense, the policy there is 20%. You should never tip more than 20%.
Additionally, the move to per diem for out of state travel and expenses should accommodate informal
tipping. But I think we've also entered into a time where you might take an Uber or Lyft and there might be
a gratuity sort of expected to be included. And we would reimburse. I think the idea is that we would
reimburse as your expense for the Uber or Lyft to get to where you were needing to go whatever gratuity
you were included.
But Director Sloan raises a good point. What should be the standard limit for gratuities on a service like
that and what's the guidelines there? So we can certainly take that feedback into account and bring some
additional language on that back in October.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you. Yeah, Secretary Sloan, thanks for bringing that up. It's a really good
point.
And I just wanted to add in that, Mr. Kroll, something I like that you said early on in the presentation was
opportunities to align with the other policies of the agency, which, as you talk about the burden on
accounts payable and all of our various staff members, I think any opportunities we have to align are
good. So it might be if we have an agency wide tipping policy, probably a good thing to borrow from and
add in here. And yeah, anyway, thanks for doing the work to align us with the rest of the agency. Any
opportunities we have to do so I think is good.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree. I have a couple of comments. Anyone else first?

I know I raised this once before and there was some controversy, at least from one or two Board
members. But I think that with the opportunity to align with the staff and taking some of the burden off of
the staff in terms of payable and the Board staff, and also, I think Mr. Kroll had a really good point when
you said that this puts a cap on what people can spend that hasn't been there in the past. So thanks for
all the work.
I have a question, because it's come up with a Board member in the past, about community non-transit
events. And there's a sentence in 9.0 that says participation in community non-transit related events is
supported by RTD with approval of the benefit to the agency. Is that a Chair's approval? How do we do
that? And I think there are a lot of Chamber events that people go to. Does it get more squishy if it's a
local non-profit event in terms of how we make these decisions? And I don't know if that's been fully
thought through. We can talk about it later if we need to.
JACK KROLL: Yeah. And I'd be happy to have Tai-Shrae chime in on this as well. But reading this, it
does seem to be an area where some additional clarity is warranted.
I think one of the provisions we placed elsewhere in this policy is really just a nod to the fact that this
policy can't conceivably cover every potential expense, and expenses of unusual or non-ordinary nature
should require additional approval and scrutiny.
I think the original intent of this language, as it's a section that didn't receive significant revision, or much
revision, I should say, is that if RTD were, say, going to an event-- I can't think of one directly off the top of
my head, DRCOG is certainly transit-oriented, but you could imagine there might be another event that
RTD had a presence at that was administrative or transit-related, an administrative presence at a nontransit related but community event, this section provides freedom for the Board to expend some of its
monies to also attend.
Maybe, here's maybe an example, which would be every year there's an annual party for the regional
mayors. It doesn't necessarily have a specific transit focus but it could be a good event for RTD to have a
presence at. And this section anticipates that Directors may want to acquire tickets to go to something like
that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I think that's a good example. And I'm thinking of a situation that came up
with a director who's no longer on the Board where their area really needed a small amount of money to
do something at a bus station. And I actually can't remember if they were able to use their local account
for that, I think they were, to help their city use by using their local account in that way. So that kind of
thing comes up too.
Let's see, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Actually relative to that specific item, that was
Director Shelley Cook who wanted to be able to use $1,000 from her local fund to be able to help with, I
believe it was a bench at a station. And initially, my thought was that it would be a nice idea but that it
might not be allowed. I took it to the Executive Committee while I was Chair. And the committee voted not
to allow it just because it was outside the description of expenditures that we allowed under the policy.
We did say that perhaps at some point in the future, we might look at those funds differently. This might
be an opportunity, should the Executive Committee choose to submit a proposed revision to the
reimbursement policy to the full Board, for everyone to weigh in on that subject. But in fact, in that case, it

did not turn out that Director Cook could use those funds in that manner, which was not well received by
Director Cook.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Snyder. Thank you, Director Tisdale.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just wanted to highlight that the context that we're talking
about right now is an expense reimbursement policy and that there is some ground for that in the RTD
statute. I think the scenario that Director Tisdale was just talking about with a prior director request is
wholly outside a reimbursement policy. And I think that that would really, I'd recommend a broader
discussion about whether it's appropriate to use RTD funds for projects that directors would like to see
funded.
We have our call for projects partnerships. We have other frameworks in place for those kinds of things.
And I do also just want to caution about using the language I have heard sometimes directors reference
to their local funds. And I think we just have to be careful. You know, all of these funds are RTD funds
that are supposed to be used for an appropriate purpose. And again, this conversation is in the context of
reimbursements for appropriate expenses, not being spent, not funds to be used for particular projects.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to say I'm really proud of doing this work.
So thank you, Jack. Non-transit related events sometimes look like the Servicios de La Raza gala, with
RTD supported that, right? Our staff had a table, but I also went separately from RTD, not knowing that
we were there. And so it would have been nice to know that I could have potentially been able to request
some of the District's local expense money for that event, as it wasn't directly related to travel but we are
partners with them.
And another one that's happening even tonight is the La Jefe and La Jefa Mi Casa Resource Center
gathering to have a discussion about community issues within District C. But also, those issues affect the
entire region. And I think this will be really impactful for doing some of that work where it's not directly
linked to a transit conversation but transit is always underlying part of it, especially with my community,
where we need to figure out how to get to things and how to move people around. And if we're really
living up to our mission of connecting people, I think that this is a great move.
So I just wanted to weigh in on that part. Thank you for doing the work. I appreciate it. It looks really good.
And I'm really proud to work with you guys on this. Thank you. That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I think that's a good example. And I'm not sure what the answer should
be in terms of what we're supporting and not supporting. We all have nonprofits and groups that we
support. But it's just something that may be coming up from time to time and we might want to think about
at some point.
Anyone else? All right.
JACK KROLL: If I may, Chair. I just want to recognize a lot of the work that was done on this was done by
Tai-Shrae. And she identified this right from the outset of my joining the Board Office and the District as a
top priority to address. And so recognition is due to her for getting these changes this far.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And thank you, Ms. Parish, for all your work on doing this
and for making it a priority. It was time to get it done and we appreciate it.

All right. The final item, Executive Session Zoom recording access. Jack, it's up to you again.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, I think the cue up for this can be pretty straightforward. There's been some requests
by Directors to come in and view recordings of Executive Sessions. In the past, the need to come in was
a technological one. We had physical recordings of Executive Sessions. And Directors have raised the
point, well, since we've now moved to a system whereby we're using Zoom a lot more, this was a remote
meeting to begin with, why do I necessarily need to come into 1660 Blake to review that recording?
Obviously, there's a practice in place right now that asks Directors to come in and view those. And given
the switch in technological capabilities, the Board Office is just looking for some guidance from you all as
to what types of practices around viewing Executive Session recordings you all would like to have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Questions? Discussion? Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for opening up for feedback here. I have
a, I think, just a thought that as we explore this, I'd like to make sure we keep an eye on, which is the IT
and cybersecurity component of this. So there's probably a broader discussion in terms of cybersecurity
practices and IT considerations for Directors and devices and passwords and authentication and so forth.
So I'm someone who's always on the go and traveling and an engineer. So technology, I'm excited about,
and I certainly would love the opportunity to be able to review sessions that I am not able to be there in
person for. I do think that would be good. I just want to make sure that as we investigate that, we're
dialoguing with IT with a specific focus on cybersecurity and considerations. And then, of course, with our
General Counsel, Melanie Snyder, and her team on all the related interdependencies of those.
And it may be that we have a broader discussion to have around Board IT practices in the future. But I
would leave that to some others to discover. So thank you for the time. Appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Davidson. I think that's a very, very good reminder.
We have been joined by Director Ruscha. Director Ruscha, you have your hand up. Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madame Chair. So I was one of the Directors who requested to view a
previous Executive Session remotely. And that was granted once and I appreciate that.
So I would posit that if we are currently meeting remotely for Executive Session, which we are, without
any additional IT or security overlays, that we should allow the same for remote viewing post haste. Or, to
Director Davidson's point, we should just stop having Executive Session remotely.
We don't have stay-at-home orders. We are able to conduct business in person. So if there is no health
reason for us to be meeting remotely and we are meeting remotely out of convenience, then if we need to
have an Executive session and that session is planned in advance and we know it's on the agenda, then
we all need to come down to Blake Street, if IT is, and security is a consideration.
So I think that if this is something that needs to be worked out and needs more time before we can come
to a decision, then maybe in the interim we just stop having Executive Sessions remotely, because I think
what Director Davidson brought up is a good point. And just to follow that logic, we should be consistent.
Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Any other comments? Mr. Kroll, any thoughts?

JACK KROLL: Yeah. I mean, I think, it if it doesn't appear as though consensus can be reached in this
discussion here, if there's broader issues, we can certainly keep the current practice in place, which is just
to require folks to come down to 1660 Blake to review these items.
And I do think there was a discussion just prior to this meeting between General Counsel Snyder, Ms.
Parish and myself around as we continue to have Executive Sessions, and now with the reality of our
world is such that moving forward in perpetuity, what are the chances that there is not at least one
director joining a meeting remotely into the foreseeable future? For example, we've already received
indication that one of our directors will have to join remotely for next week's meeting due to a work
obligation.
So that complicates how we even want to approach recording Executive Sessions and providing access
to that. So it's a bigger issue that potentially the Board needs to grapple with before providing direction on
this. And for context, the request to view remote Executive Sessions, we've had, I think, maybe three or
four since I've started. There's not a significant inundation of these requests.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks. Appreciate it. And thank you, Director Ruscha, for the comments about
it. It's got me just thinking about a whole other aspect of this, which is the cybersecurity aspect. I mean, I
think Mr. Kroll, to your point, I think the probability is pretty high that on a go-forward basis, there's going
to be remote participation. And I think it's an important thing to contemplate. And we're getting to the point
now where business as usual practices are going to start to form.
I personally am supportive of maintaining virtual options, even for Executive Sessions. And if those exist,
then I think it's fair to say some type of remote viewing is something we should have available. I like that
idea. I just would encourage us to, again, follow some of the best practices. We can't be the only ones
going through this and thinking about this. In fact, I know, certainly from a private sector standpoint, we're
not.
There are some things out there and there are tools for adding dual factor authentication to downloading
files and having to have an RTD address and confirming with our phone number, for example, to be able
to download on a device, or even setting expiration on files. There's things out there. I wouldn't be the
right one to identify those and settle those. I guess just since you brought up looking for some consensus,
Mr. Kroll, I'd like to voice my support of solving this problem and having that be possible, both having
Executive Sessions remotely and being able to view them.
But let's take a look at what the best practices are. I also don't think we need to, if we can't solve it right
away, I don't think there's any rush to reprioritize other things going on within IT right now. So we could
keep the practice as is for a little while, but I'm glad we're discussing it and let's just take a look at what
others are doing.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madame Chair. I also just-- I apologize, I forgot to start my video. I also
just wanted to add when I did request to view the session remotely, I assumed a staff member, I'd have to
schedule it with a staff member. And so that it was like a live viewing, if that makes sense, maybe over a
Zoom session. And so that might be something that we could consider. It doesn't take care of all of those
IT considerations.

But for whatever it's worth, I took my LSAT remotely. Most everyone does these days. And that was pretty
high security and that seemed to work out. So I think this is all solvable. And maybe we just need a little
bit more time to figure out how to do it. But I also just wanted to express my appreciation to the Executive
Board for having this conversation and putting it as a discussion item for today, because I think this is
something that we need to address.
And so thank you for your leadership on this. And also, thank you to Mr. Kroll for the work that you've put
forth and I'm sure you'll need to put forth to help us through this. So thank you very much. And I
appreciate the time you've given me to talk.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You are welcome. And I agree with you that this is solvable. And I think there's
some good ideas and issues are raised. We have a governance study session scheduled in October now,
and that would give us some time to think through the process a little more and come back with
something that, maybe answer some of these questions. That sound good to you, Jack? OK. All right.
And that sounds good, I assume, to others. Thank you. Are there any other matters to discuss today?
Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just very briefly, and it's a question to be posed
and left for later response, because I note that General Manager/CEO Johnson is not in the meeting with
us any longer. And rather than raise this at the Board meeting, I wanted to do it in the context of the
Executive Committee.
And that is a question regarding the status of the A line naming rights. That's a contract that expired in
May of 2022, which is 16 months ago, and we knew that that contract would not be renewed over two
years ago. And so that means that we have lost at least $2 million in revenue. And when we speak of
revenue diversification, and we have a working group now that the General Manager has put together on
this subject, I would think that would be one thing that's found money.
And we should have an update on that. And whether it's in the context of a comment at the Board
meeting, which I don't know is necessary, but at least a memorandum from General Manager advising
what is the status of that pursuit and when can we start making money on that again.
Thank you, Madam Chair. That's my only comment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Mr. McKay, can you please make sure that moves
forward to our General Manager/CEO, or management?
JOHN MCKAY: Doing that right now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. OK. I figured.
Anything else? Any other matters? Okey, doke. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thanks, Chair. I think most of us are on the Performance Committee here. I just
wanted to remind everybody that we've got a couple Performance Committee meetings coming up. And if
you haven't had a chance to respond to the Board Office yet-- and Tai-Shrae, thank you for sending out
the email, and Jack, thank you for getting everything all teed up there-- please just respond and confirm
attendance.

I did have an opportunity to speak with General Counsel Snyder yesterday, just again confirming
understanding on the contract. I think we have a couple things that we need to do, in addition to having
the survey reports that will come before Performance Committee, we need to take a look at what we're
going to do with the compensation analysis with Gallagher through the lens of the compensation
philosophy that we just passed as a committee.
So really, I just wanted to highlight for the group here to please make every effort to come to those
Performance Committee meetings. I think we're going to have a couple of things to take care of before
the end of the year. So I guess I'll just leave it there. And thanks for the attendance and participation so
far.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Thank you for your work on that.
All right. Anything else? If not, the next Executive Committee meeting is scheduled for Thursday, October
19, and this meeting is adjourned.
Thanks, everyone.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as public comment to the
RTD Executive Committee Meeting, September 21st, 2023.
September 21st, 2023
Lynn Guissinger, RTD Executive Committee Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Proposed Bylaw Amendment to Set a Time Limit on Board Meetings
Dear Chair Guissinger,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) is opposed to the proposal to set a time limit on board meetings due to it being
completely out of touch with the realities of governing a transit agency that is facing numerous serious issues.
Instead of “[aligning] with the Strategic Priorities of Community Value and Customer Excellence by expanding
the level of public access provided”, we are of the opinion that most riders would prefer their elected
representatives take whatever time is necessary to discuss, vote, govern and direct the agency effectively.
GDT notes that this proposal came about in the aftermath of the June 2023 board meeting which ran for over
five hours. This instance was unusual as most RTD full board meetings generally take 2-3 hours, but in this
case, the extra time was necessary.
The June 2023 meeting was unique for two main reasons:
1. There was over an hour of public comment from riders and operators regarding how severely the
conditions on the light rail system have degraded. This was something that all RTD directors and senior
staff needed to hear as people who are using the system on a daily basis are begging for something to
be done. Our message to directors who don’t want to sit through this every month is simple; if you don’t
like it, compel and support your staff to actually fix the issues being raised.
2. Staff put forward an extremely problematic Code of Conduct document which despite 743 public
comments being received, had not been altered even just once in response. This alone was a sufficient
reason to send it back to staff rather than try to hammer it through to approval. It was also clear that the
issues surrounding the Code of Conduct hadn't been given adequate committee / discussion group time
to be appropriately discussed and amendments devised, resulting in a slew of amendments having to
be proposed at the board meeting. This naturally took up a lot of time and was a frustrating experience
for all involved.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Instead of adopting a by-law amendment which is sure to be interpreted as directors having other priorities
than governing RTD, GDT would like to suggest the following to ensure board meetings stay under four hours
in length:
1. The Chair reminds all directors that the RTD Board and staff are one large team with the common aim
of providing and improving transit in the RTD District. This team works well when directors seek to
collaborate, facilitate communication, listen to each other, compromise and generally act in good faith
while keeping politics to a minimum.
2. Board and committee chairs should carefully limit the cases where they exercise their unique privileges
in being able to put items directly onto agendas. As chairs primarily serve to facilitate debate, it is vital
this privilege be used sparingly to ensure the integrity of the broader process with exceptions made
only for items of an urgent nature. The subject of this letter is a case in point; GDT is curious as to why
this regular, non-urgent piece of business has been put forward as a discussion item to this committee.
Will amendments be debated behind closed doors, and placed straight on the full board agenda,
without a committee vote? This appears to be in direct contravention of Article V, Section 3 (b) of the
bylaws, which promotes action items getting a committee vote.
3. All Directors see the requirement to get two or more other Directors to submit items to committee
agendas and then committee votes as useful “guard rails” to gauge whether an item will be approved
by the full board. If a piece of business cannot pass the committee process, it should not usually make
it to the full board agenda as it is likely to be problematic and take up valuable meeting time.
Because of the reasons above, GDT urges all directors on the committee to vote in opposition to the proposal
to set a time limit for board meetings.
Best Regards,

James Flattum
Greater Denver Transit
CC:

Richard Bamber
Greater Denver Transit

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

