2022-06-23
Executive Committee
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. The June 23, 2022 Executive Committee meeting is now called to order at 12:04
PM. I will call the roll. First Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Second Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: Secretary Sloan?
MAJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Treasurer Whitmore?
TROLY L. WHITMORE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: And Buzek is here as well. We have a few other Directors present. We have Director
Rivera-Malpiede. We have Director Doug Tisdale. We have Director Shelley Cook and Director Eric
Davidson. I don't think I missed any other Directors. And we have a whole lot of staff. We have our General
Manager and CEO Debra Johnson. Where did you go? I know I saw you. There you are.
We've got our General Counsel Mary Snyder or Office Manager Barbara McManus. We've got Board Office
, Tai-Shrae Well, so anyway, we've got a bunch of staff people here. Thank you all for coming today. So I'd
like to open this up first to public comment for anyone who would like to address the committee regarding
any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current or immediately preceding month if you wish
to speak and if not already don.
So please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your
turn to speak. You are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by
participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments
will need to be submitted in writing.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the committee, or if any member of the public
would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the following
email address-- rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. During public comment, the committee will not offer
comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers following their comments if they raise
matters that lend themselves to followup.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names. And each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Ms. McManus, do we have any speakers in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have two attendees and no speakers

VINCE BUZEK: OK. And were there any emailed comments received?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No external emails.
VINCE BUZEK: So with no one wishing to speak during the public comment period, I will now close the
public comment period and move forward. We have two recommended action items on the agenda. As a
reminder to the committee and meeting attendees recommended actions passed by the Executive
Committee whether unanimous or not will be included under the recommended action section of the Board
meeting agenda.
This will allow the full Board the opportunity to discuss the items should they have any questions or
comments. Our first recommended action item is for the Board of Directors to reappoint two RTD Citizen
Advisory committee CAC members to additional three-year terms, to appoint four new members to threeyear terms, and to appoint one new member to a two-year term. Do I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
TROLY L. WHITMORE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Guissinger is a movement. And Whitmore's a second. Great. Is there any discussion on
this recommended action item? Seeing none, I call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this
recommended action? And seeing them, that moves forward from the Executive Committee with unanimous
consent. The second recommended action item is for the Board of Directors to approve the proclamation
for CRL Associates Inc. for their contributions made to the Regional Transportation District. And is there a
motion?
TROLY L. WHITMORE: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Whitmore? Is there a second? And yeah. And Is there any discussion on this item? Dr.
Catlin, did you want to speak? No? OK. You kind of went like this, so I thought you were signaling me. OK.
With no discussion, any further discussion call for the vote, are there any no votes on this action item?
None. OK, that moves forward out of the Executive Committee with unanimous consent.
Next is our June Board meeting review. Everybody has seen the June Board meeting agenda. And I will
need-- hang on one second. Before I ask for the motion, I will ask Ms. McManus the following question.
[COUGHS] Pardon me, that wasn't the question. Director Dishell contacted me. And he is going to want
the Allied Universal contract removed from the recommended action for discussion at the Board meeting.
Do we want to remove that now from the agenda? Or should he make that request at the Board meeting?
He's fine either way. You're still on mute if you're speaking.
MAJORIE SLOAN: All right, I will speak then. I think we should accommodate Director Dishell by removing
it now rather than making him take Board time to do it.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. First question-[INTERPOSING VOICES]

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: And I recognize I'm not a committee member. So maybe if it were, it's out of order. But
nonetheless, you're saying not removed from the agenda. Remove from-VINCE BUZEK: The consent agenda.
DOUG TISDALE: --consent agenda.
VINCE BUZEK: Correct. And to make it under the recommended action section.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Sorry if I misspoke. And by the way, you're out of order. [LAUGHS] First Vice Chair
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, that might get to what my question was. Is it on the unanimous consent agenda
now? I guess it is.
VINCE BUZEK: It is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Yeah, no, I agree. Let's take it off.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. And Ms. McManus, is that OK? Can we do that, just shift it?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, it's appropriate. It's appropriate to be moved forward to the recommended
action through this committee.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. And do we need a motion from this committee to make that happen? Or no?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So now, I will ask for a motion to move the June Board meeting agenda as amended
to the Board meeting on June 20. Is there a motion to approve that agenda?
PEGGY CATLIN: Some of.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Second? Is there a second?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
I'm sorry, Director Guissinger, did you-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I'll wait for the second, and then-- I'll second, and then-VINCE BUZEK: I'll get you a second. OK.

LYNN GUISSINGER: --questions.
VINCE BUZEK: So we had, I think it was Catlin and Guissinger. And is there any discussion? First Vice
Chair Guissinger, discussion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I too I'm trying to find my spot in the-- here it is the. So we're discussing the
Board meeting and moving it forward. And we have the revised delegation of authority. OK, that's a
separate-- we're going to discuss that separately, right?
VINCE BUZEK: Right. That's only on this discussion item at this time. That will come forward in the July
meeting cycle for approval.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Any further discussion on the motion to move the agenda forward as advised? Seeing
none, are there any no votes to move this forward? Seeing none, that moves forward with the unanimous
consent of the Executive Committee. We're going to move now on to discussion items that we have-- six
discussion items on our agenda today.
First, is the Government Relations report. General Manager and CEO Johnson, did you want to address
this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon to all of you, Executive
Committee members and other Board members that are assembled this afternoon. Debra Johnson,
General Manager and CEO. I'm going to provide a brief update on Government Relations activities as
Michael Davies Government Relations officer is out of the office today.
So really quickly, at the federal level, the primary focus has been for us on facilitating the return of the credit
risk premium from the US Department of Transportation. All documentation and requested information have
been submitted to DOT. And RTD expects the return in the very near future. Code word for we'll wait, but
we've done everything we're supposed to do in relationship to that and have had our federal lobbyists and
our delegation working diligently as well as the support of FTA as well.
At the state level, the General Assembly is out of regular session. So the one element I'd like to touch upon
is that, sure, Buzek and I are scheduled to present to the Transportation Legislation Review Committee on
September 20. I encourage the Board to attend if your schedule allow. You'll receive more information
pertaining to the time and location most likely in early September.
And then lastly, at the local level, Michael Davies and General Counsel Snider have been coordinating with
the county clerks and the Secretary of State's office on the Board proposal to provide zero-fare transit in
conjunction with the November 2022 General election. Feedback has been positive from both the clerks
and the Secretary of State's office.
One specific recommendation from the clerks is a preference to not wait until actual Election Day as the
primary goal as the clerks are promoting early voting. A tentative suggestion from the clerks that will be
further discussed after the primary election, which is June 28, because the meeting hasn't taken place
because they're focused on the primary. And so meeting is going to happen thereafter.

Is to consider zero fare for the National vote early day on October 28 to promote and encourage voting, as
well as the General election on November 8. The Chair and I did have a brief conversation about this. But
this will be more fleshed out once this meeting occurs with the appropriate representatives. And then
included in the discussion with the clerks will be clear information on the existing process for counties to
partner with RTD and place voter drop boxes on RTD property as well. So with that, Mr. Chair, that
concludes my report. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much for that report. Does any member of the committee or any Board
member present have any questions for GM/CEO or Johnson? Seeing none, we'll move forward. Thanks
for that report. Next up is process and timeline for potential amendments to the bylaws. Ms. McManus, are
you going to take this one? It's just the administrative stuff we talk about.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I can start this off. So there were some administrative changes that were
proposed at the time that we were approving the new meeting structure that was brought forward by Director
Tisdale and Director Cook. Those items were pulled. At this point, we have asked Director Guissinger and
Director Sloan to look at those changes to see if they feel at this time they're still appropriate to move
forward.
And then we also met Director Sloan, myself, Director Guissinger, and General Counsel Melanie Snyder to
speak about the best way to approach the changes in all of the governance documents. And what we had
discussed was making the administrative changes and then proposed substantive changes in the bylaws
first. And then trickling those items down to the Board governance manual and the Board operating
guidelines.
There was some discussion as to whether or not those additional two documents brought value forward,
and whether we should move forward with all three of those documents, or we should bring that to the
Board for discussion. So at this point, I could pass it off to Director Sloan or Director Guissinger for them to
speak on what they have done to date.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Do either of you wish to talk about the process and timeline for potential
amendments to the bylaws? I know we have two other discussion items coming forward that updates the
governance manual and the informal Director meetings. But we'll address those separately if that's OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You go, Marjorie.
MAJORIE SLOAN: I was asking you to go, but thank you. Thank you, Barbara. That summed it up. Mostly
we realize what a tangled web our governance documents are. And all of the need improvement,
simplification, common language which they didn't have. So after we looked at the proposed administrative
changes, which staff brought forward and undoubtedly have merit, we didn't really opine on those at all.
We started considering the idea that perhaps substantive issues should come first and then later, any
administrative changes. Because the substantive issues are things that the Board is interested in,
specifically the idea of informal meetings. And that originally started not with the bylaws but with the manual
for how we do proceed.
Barbara has indicated she believes it should be in the bylaws. And that's fine too. It was outside the scope
of Director Guissinger's and mine brief. It seems like that is something that should go forward It was
discussed in retreat the idea of informal meetings would improve efficiency of the Board. And particularly

now when it seems that the Board is being asked to go to local officials concerning the situation at Denver
Union Station and the zero-fare month.
And when there are overlapping jurisdictions with one group of elected officials, it seems if the elected
representatives should at least get together first and have a common approach to, for instance, the
Jefferson County commissioners. Another reason to go forward with this is it avoids the serial email problem
that the Douglas County School Board got itself embroiled in.
So we proposed a very general paragraph allowing flexible informal meetings. And you received that. Thank
you to Barbara for sending that out. And I would suggest that goes forward first, whether it's a custom
change that can go in one or the other governance documents or a bylaw change. Lynn, do you have items
to add to that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, not much. I think you did a great job. Thanks, Margie.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that discussion. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was looking at the documents about the informal
gathering. And I have a couple of questions and maybe perhaps a couple of concerns in terms of if we
informalize the ability for more than three Board members to get together offsite, what are the ramifications
for ADA compliance and security issues?
Particularly in today's state, elected officials really need to be a little bit cautious about security and the
diversity of folks who may attend those meetings. So I just wanted to know if there was any thought given
to it. Because I personally would not feel comfortable having a meeting in my community with other Board
members with no security and that is not ADA compliant. So if someone could answer that for me, I'd be
so appreciative. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great Thanks for the questions. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And Ms. McManus and others have provided options for moving forward
with security and some of those things. The idea is that it would be compliant with all relevant laws. So ADA
compliance wherever it needs to be accessible. And I think that there are times that people may need or
want security. And I think we take care of that at that point.
I think that sometimes more than two of us show up to county meetings or public meetings of various sorts.
And there's not security there. I guess my answer is that that can be taken care of on an individual basis if
the Directors feel the need for security.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: With all due respect, I'm not comfortable with that answer. And I guess the
reason that I'm not comfortable with it is because I think there are so many components that come into play
with this. And I think those commissioner meetings we go to and stuff, they all actually put out in the public
that they're happening in those-- get those things ready.
What I'm most concerned about is just the sense of uneasiness in today's state around elected officials,
number one. Number two, if I have a meeting in my community, how much staff time is that going to take?
To staff, it was security. And if I need interpretation in different languages is that going to be taken into
account? Because I don't know who will be showing up.

And what compliance do I have to have in place to do a meeting out in the community with other Directors
that I wouldn't have the resources for that would be happening at a Board Office.
VINCE BUZEK: Any response from anyone.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I just say that really it's not contemplating meetings in the community. I was just
giving that as an example of where Directors might show up in a situation. This is more like where several
people who represent a specific county would like to get together and talk about how to work with their
County officials or their county staff or something along those lines.
And, again, I think the idea is to make it so that we comply with our laws. Everybody has appropriate notice,
the minutes are recorded and all of those things, and Ms. McManus and her team have offered the option
of security and location and those things.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you so much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Now Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Hi, everybody. Thank you for letting me weigh in. As I recall, this came up when Marjorie
proposed a meeting between herself and Peggy and me to prepare for a joint meeting with the Board of
County Commissioners. And the idea was, I think, more than twofold. But to get on the same page and kind
of have our act together to put our best foot forward as we met with the commissioners, identify what we'd
want to talk about.
But the reason we wanted to do it away from Blake, as I recall, was to get a lay of the land where we'd be
meeting with the commissioners and look at how the meeting room or the hearing room, whatever it was,
was laid out. And then finally, Marjorie was proposing to prepare us a salad for lunch. And it was just a
chance for Board members to get to know one another.
And in my experience, that's really beneficial in a less than direct way, but an important way as you go
forward, getting to know your Board members in a way that isn't so formal and allows a more informal
exchange of views and so forth. So thank you for letting me weigh in.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: This will be the last thing, I promise. That's exactly my concern is that we are
now in 2022 in a completely different environment in the world. And I really fear that the spirit is great, but
the reality is stark. And I personally would not feel comfortable as a Board Director to have a meeting in a
home and having an informal luncheon, because it would be open to the public. And I would not know who
would show up at any given time and who could come back afterwards.
And so that's really my concern. It probably is because I've worked so closely with the Denver Police
Department for years. But I really would like to caution us on this side of just safety as opposed to the side
of informal gatherings. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Director Cook, your hand is still up, if you have any more to
add. Thanks, OK. Secretary Sloan.

MAJORIE SLOAN: Yeah. I really appreciate Angie's comments in this. We tried to make it flexible enough
that it would meet the comfort level of any of the Directors, whatever they felt was important rather than a
one-size fits all for just a brief informal meeting. And that's a great reason to bring this up at this committee
to see what the feelings of the other Directors are.
Angie has made her feelings-- very valid feelings with her experience plain. And it would be dependent on
the other Directors whether this goes forward or not. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: [GIGGLES] I know I said that was last time, but now this is the last time. I
would respectfully disagree with that. And I know I'm only one Board member out of 15 Board members.
But I think that the operative word for me that I heard Director Sloan was that this would be flexible to meet
the needs of different folks depending on who they are.
And I think that's one of the reasons we get into trouble is if we don't have a uniform, clear defined plan of
action for every single one of us that is by the book then I think we're going to be treading on in a gray area
that come back. So I would just caution the Executive Committee on that. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. I've got a question for our General Counsel. I know she's
here. There she is. So with the example that was given when Director Cook spoke, there was going to be
a meeting with three Directors at a Jefferson County Office somewhere that I presume is accessible and
has security.
And then subsequently, there was going to be an informal gathering of those same three Directors at
Marjory Sloan's house for lunch. My understanding of the notice requirements of public meetings is the first
part is a public meeting you need to provide notice for. The second part may not be if you're not discussing
RTD business. Is that fair to say?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. Yes, you are correct.
So to the extent you have three Directors that are discussing Board or RTD business, yes, you need to
follow the Open Meetings Law, which requires 24 hours notice of the items to be discussed, the agenda
items to be discussed. If you have a purely social gathering where no one's going to be discussing RTD
business or Board business or matters to come before the Board, that doesn't need to follow the same
restrictions.
And I should say, pardon me, in the first instance, you also need to-- in addition to notice, you have to make
that meeting accessible and open to the public. The second meeting you would not need to.
VINCE BUZEK: Right, OK. OK. So I'm a fan of flexibility as long as we're complying with the law when it
comes to accessibility and notice and things like that. And I appreciate Director Rivera-Malpiede's
comments and concerns about security and all that. And I suppose Directors that share those concerns-and there are likely many-- will not conduct a meeting where there's not security. Anyway, that's good. Ms.
McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, so I just wanted to clarify the example that Director Sloan brought forward.
Because what she was proposing is that the three Directors at her house having a planning meeting that

would bring forward a more formal meeting with the powers that be in their local governments. So it would
not be a social luncheon in the vein that it was originally scheduled.
It was actually a planning meeting with three Directors. So I just wanted to clarify that, because this is where
the lines start getting blurred with what is happening and what's not happening. And I did along with the
language that Directors Guissinger and Sloan wanted to bring forward regarding informal meetings of the
Board. I also sent a document that the Board Office prepared that outlines the current customs and costs
of meetings back live, all of the different scenarios with ad hoc committees so on and so forth and what the
current protocols are.
As well as on the last page was a proposal of how I think these smaller meetings could best be managed.
I know that the Directors want something a little less informal so perhaps there's a middle ground. I just
don't know what that looks like yet. But when we prepare to bring this forward to the whole Board, I just
would hope that all of the details were fleshed out and brought forward. And all of the information is being
brought forward, not just the idea that the Directors could meet more informally. Because I think there just
is so much more to it than that. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. General Counsel Snyder?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Ms. McManus for that clarification. And I
just wanted to also clarify that the advice I was providing was based on the two hypotheticals that the Chair
was proposing, not the scenario that Ms. McManus just described.
VINCE BUZEK: And thanks for that. And my assumption-- and that's always dangerous-- would be that if
this process moves forward, the meeting where business is discussed at Secretary Sloan's house will
probably not happen, because you might not be ADA accessible so you would have had to do something
different, I suppose. But again, I'm a fan of flexibility. And I'm a fan of Directors being able to meet
somewhere other than Blake.
Because we live outside of Blake, and we conduct our business outside of Blake. And to the extent, we
can-- and we need to change the title from "informal Director meetings" to something else, because they're
not informal. They're formal in that we comply with the formalities of the law. Correct? So let's call them
something different, because they're really not an informal meeting. That sounds more like, oh, let's just get
together and have some coffee and talk business. So I don't think that's what's envisioned. Anyway, any
more discussion. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. Ms. McManus raises a good point that they had offered that
staff had written up a memo with a number of questions about security and recording and things like that.
And I guess I had thought from the conversation with some in the Board Office that those were options. But
she's right, we need to figure out exactly how we're moving this forward.
So I would like to see-- and I don't know what we need to do if we need to do anything to amend something- that we move forward the informal meeting proposal. And certainly, I understand your idea of changing
the name. But we move that forward with the suggestions from the Board Office of ways it could be done if
people have security issues or want to do it at Blake and those sorts of things. But keeping those as an
option, which is, again, what I understood I wasn't. But maybe I wasn't sure there. Maybe I wasn't right.
Thanks.

VINCE BUZEK: Any further discussion? I think we've just covered three topics, right? [GIGGLES] We
covered the process and timeline. I'm going to get back to the process and timeline, because I'm not sure
the timeline-- the government spending on informal meetings. Anything further on informal meetings and
governance manual updates? So OK, cool. How about timeline? I'll turn this back to Secretary Sloan, First
Vice Chair Guissinger. What do you envision for a timeline in getting something to the Board for review and
consideration?
MAJORIE SLOAN: I'm going to toss this to Lynn, yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: First Vice Chair Guissinger, go ahead with the answer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess whoever ever speaks first gets to assign the other one. I guess it's been
around. People have been asking us. We'd like to move it forward soon, but to the extent there is some
lack of clarification about the staff memo and what we're passing here. I think it's fine to postpone it and
maybe clarify that and get a recommended action and move it forward to the Board in July would be my
recommendation.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So we'll see more to come, right? Is that fair to say?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That sounds right, Marjorie?
MAJORIE SLOAN: The timeline sounds . Right but other than changing the title, I'm not sure our very
general paragraph needs much change. It maybe is-- I keep tossing things to other people. Maybe the
Board offers about potential ways to incorporate security and IT if the people involved in the meeting request
it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, recommended action that just makes clear. This is the proposal. And these
are the options offered from the Board Office for people who want to use them, something like that.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I would just also add on to your list, ADA compliance. Because I think
that would be a really huge issue for us.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Great. Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. This probably goes without saying, but I would encourage all Board
members that if they are going to plan a smaller meeting to make sure that the Board Office is engaged in
the discussion early on so that they don't have to react.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Any further comments or discussion on these topics? And Directors Guissinger and
Sloan, do you think you have enough comments to move forward? Yeah? Good. Thumbs up, excellent.
Let's move on to the next discussion item. And that is revised delegation of authority. And I'm sure we all
know the background on this. The delegation that was in the packet was drafted by Director Tisdale and
myself with input from Director Guissinger.
I know I've had some calls and emails from other Directors in getting thumbs up and so forth. But as noted
in the red line version of that resolution, the revised delegation would update the current delegation of

purchasing and contracting budget transfer and settlement authority consistent with the Board bylaws, the
RTD Act, regulations published by the Federal Transit Administration and the Board's historic practices.
And examples of contracts excluded by the delegation include safety and security, local state and federal
lobbying and government relations, contracts for consultants providing public outreach, telephone, town
halls, or soliciting community feedback and contracts for internal and external audit functions. Is there any
discussion, anything that anyone would like to add or change with the proposed language in the revised
delegation? We'll take comments now. OK. General Counsel Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I certainly want to defer to the director's discussion. I
think it's really important to have these conversations. As we've talked about in the past, the Board has all
of the statutory authority to be able to make these decisions. And you have delegated the way some of that
authority in the prior delegation and then the one that was most recently passed in March.
I have a number of questions, because I just want to make sure that we're really clear on that staff has
really clear direction about what you intend to be within scope or outside the scope if you don't mind, Mr.
Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure, go ahead.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. So the first category is any contract dealing with the provision of safety and
security services. So the original delegation-- under that original delegation, contracts like the Allied Security
Services contract did not have to go to the Board. When the 2022 delegation was approved, that was
specifically excluded. So that is the reason, for example, why you saw, where the Board saw, the committee
saw the Allied contract that came to the Board.
So my question is, is the intention to include or to limit that to Allied type services? Or when you say safety,
does that mean we have a whole safety division, and we have a whole security division? So are we talking
about all contracts that those divisions touch? So in safety, for example, we have our safety management
system. We have a Core NA software system that we're working on right now that is going to manage all
of our safety management or manage a lot of our safety management processes.
On the security side, are you intending that to be just contracted services like Allied? Or were you
envisioning that, for example, our Chief would bring to you the secondary employment contracts that we
have with other law enforcement agencies across the district? Are we intending to include just physical
security or cybersecurity? Does that give you a flavor of the questions? I think there are a number of
contracts that we have in these categories. And so I just want us to be really clear.
VINCE BUZEK: Understood. Yeah, and I think my impression was that the actual services themselves, the
Allied contract, not ministerial acts such as minor contracts or technical or equipment or things like that. If
you have more, why don't you put those into an email to the Executive Committee, and we can go through
that and hash that out? But I understand that there can be some confusion as to what that means. Director
Tisdale, do you have any comment on that? You helped with this.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I agree with your assessment that we were
principally dealing with the actual provision of security services. And I recognize that we often combine
safety and security. Safety really deals with things such as rail safety and bus safety of the vehicles and so

forth. And the Federal Transit Administration, Federal Administration addressed those topics. We really are
talking about security. And we really are talking about the services.
My thought would be that it would include the actual provision of protective services be that by Allied or by
other police agencies contracting with the RTD for provision of protective or security services.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, agreed. That's what we were thinking along those lines. So we can clean up the
language, General Counsel, if you think that would be beneficial.
MELANIE SNYDER: I think that would be helpful. And I think just allowing staff to provide some additional
information just so that the Board could make a really reasoned decision. The same thing you go for
consulting services, some of that language. We just want to make sure you have a sense of what the Board
would be taking on with respect to volume and types of contracts as well.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I appreciate that. And I will continue to work with Director Tisdale and others to
tighten up that language so that there's no question. So great. Anybody else have any comment on the
delegation of authority? No? OK, good. Let's see, timeline and-- last discussion item. So the timeline and
recruitment process for Board Office Executive Manager.
So as we've discussed before, our Board Office Manager, Barbara McManus, is going to be leaving. And I
don't know that there's a date certain. But I'm thinking it's at the end of the year to the first part of next year.
And either way, we, as the Executive Committee, need to get to work on discussing and putting in place
the recruitment process.
So one of the first things I think we need to think about is whether we will use internal RTD services to look
for candidates, or if we will hire an outside consultant firm to help us find qualified candidates. Either way,
there will be, I'm sure, a budget impact. And we'll need to make sure this is something Mr. MacLeod has
scope for in our budget. But I guess in a general sense, what are thoughts of members of the committee
with regard to doing the search with internal resources versus external resources?
TROLY L. WHITMORE: Mr. Tim?
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore, thank you.
TROLY L. WHITMORE: Dumb question, what's been prior practice?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
VINCE BUZEK: That's a good question. No, it's a good question. I don't know. I don't Know. Ms. McManus?
TROLY L. WHITMORE: I bet she would know.
VINCE BUZEK: I bet she knows.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, myself and an internal employee before, we went through the regular
recruitment process through RTD with some external-- we went through the APTA website, all of the normal
external venues that we would advertise. So prior to me when Executive Director Paula Perdue was hired,
I understand that they had a third party.

But it wasn't my understanding that they went out to RFQ. So I don't know if that point in time they had a
contract with someone that they were working with that was external. But I know that there was some
external entity that helped in that search prior to me. I know that depending on the position, RTD as a
General rule has done it both ways.
Right now, there is no Senior Manager in the HR Department. And I know that some of the other roles that
they are going out to hire for, they are using a third-party vendor. So it really is under the discretion of the
Board to decide, do they want to go through the agency and go through the normal process?
Or do they want to widen the scope and do a national search to bring someone into this position, which is
the second one of two positions that the Board does manage? So that's the information I have to offer at
this point.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Any other comments from other Direct-- I guess, I have a-- go ahead, Director
Whitmore. Finish up.
TROLY L. WHITMORE: Well, maybe this is inappropriate, but we have Mr. Ford and Debra who have
worked for other transit agencies over the years. And perhaps they're not comfortable answering this, but
do either of you recall processes for this type of position, albeit maybe a bit different and how that was
handled at your former places of employment?
VINCE BUZEK: General Manager CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Director Whitmore, for the
question. I think it boils down to what the Board's preference is collectively. There's a myriad of reasons
while somebody may basically retain the services of a talented management entity as it relates to placing
people in specific jobs. There can be market issues. So it just runs the gamut in reference to what it is that
you all prefer.
Because as you know, even with the position in which I possess, some agencies to do that internally and
others choose to retain the services of an executive recruitment firm. So it really contingent upon what
you're seeking, and what you need assistance with. If there was a desire to help craft a job description and
identify a profile that'd be optimal and one wanted to use services, or I should say systems such as
behavioral assessments and cognitive assessments, an entity can do that for you.
That could be done internal so it just depends on what you all desire. I've seen it both ways. And I've been
at seven other transit agencies and have talked to people and know people in that space. So it just depends.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for the clarity. Second Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks. You mentioned that we do not have a Senior Manager in HR. And I was just
wondering what the capacity of our human resources department is at this point, because we may, in fact,
have that decision made for us just by virtue of the time and effort it would take for someone in HR to pull
that together.
VINCE BUZEK: GM/CEO Johnson, would you like to talk about that?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so just point a clarification. Thank you very much for that comment, Director
Catlin. We do have someone acting in that stead. And we do have people there, because we are handling
human resources responsibilities on a day-to-day basis. And the individual who is acting in that stead is
quite capable of that role. So I just want to ensure recognizing this as a public meeting that we are not
rudderless as it relates to human resources.
But more specifically, it gets back to the point once again, what is it that you all want to do as we go forward
and also is contingent upon timing. This is one position in which we're recruiting. Are you looking to do a
national search? Or are you looking-- so there's a lot of different questions I believe if-- I'm hoping I'm not
overstepping, but I think this committee needs to discern, what do you all want to do?
Because I think as relates to what you agree upon collectively, then a decision can be made about the
direction of which you should go relative to who would recruit for said position. So I think that could be
advantageous as well. And if you're going to leverage different entities, as I said before, if you're going to
redo a job description, all of those factors have to be considered, I would say, before you discern who's
going to be the one that carries the ball over the finish line. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And thanks for those points. That's good to know. First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks very much. That's all great information. It made me think that maybe we could
start to move forward in terms of when our timeline is and all of that. I think several of us are going to the
transit Board Member and Board Manager summit that I believe is being run by Director Tisdale at the end
of July.
And if we can start the process of defining what we're looking for and maybe seeing what it would cost to
go out to a recruiter or something, and that might be a place where we could gain some more knowledge
on this topic. Am I right on that, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, you are. Absolutely. And we'll have wonderful resources available to us there in Salt
Lake at the TBM summit.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. That might be the way to go. I know the timeline is going to be honest before you
know it. And I'd really like to get some decision made by September as to whether we're soliciting for
recruiter or if we're going to do this internally having a job description, salary range, et cetera, ready to go.
So internally-- and then, of course, a decision whether we're going to go even internally on a national search
or try to keep it more regional in scope.
OK, so those are things we're going to think about. Any other discussion, any other thoughts on this matter?
I want to kick this down the road forever. So it seems like we're kicking it down to the APTA conference.
When you all come out of that conference in our next meeting, we need decisions. So keep that in mind.
Anything further to come before the committee? Are there any other matters to come before the committee?
First Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I just finished reading through the document that we were sent on the
mobility plan for the future. And there's a lot of good information there. And somewhere I don't think there's
a PDF or electrification that isn't yet attached. And it plan to provide more information on partnerships and
some really good information.

I thought that the study session we had was a good start but pretty high-level. And so I guess my question
and my hope is that we'll be following that up with more specifics that are based in the writing since we
didn't get it before the session.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Are you looking for a response?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. If maybe Ms. Johnson could tell us what the next step are. Are we going to do
another study session? For instance, there's the electrification piece. As I said, there are several things that
seem like they're important for the Board to understand and address.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. GM/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much for the question, First Vice Chair Guissinger for Chair Buzek
for asking me to respond. So a couple of things as we talk about where we are, recognizing that the mobility
plan for the future is the plan as relates to the whole electrification aspect. There's a transitional process
that we have to do. And I think we touched upon that during the course of the study session.
So there's work that's still underway. And as I shared with Chair Buzek, he actually requested that we have
another study session specific to that in and around the fall. And I shared with him as we look at where we
are collectively, recognizing that we've only had-- oh my gosh, operations really on a limited operating
environment.
We probably will have that information readily available in November, December, because the consultant
had to go back to the drawing Board as it related to that and the impacts of COVID. But to be more specific
with your questions, I can double back and get information from staff. When we talk about the partnerships,
you and I have spoken about that. We are working on that as it relates to a call for projects and how we go
about doing it and how much money needs to be allocated.
So while this is a plan, those certain aspects aren't going to be necessarily all itemized and outlined,
because we need that direction from the Board, which is policy as we go forward in reference to what we're
doing. So it may appear as if I'm dancing around your question, but you're giving me some aspects of it.
But I think as I was saying as we go forward, this is the framework. And those are pieces as we decide
where we're going futuristically. Does that make sense?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It makes sense. I guess I'm not clear, so are you saying-- it came out of the study
session feeling like there was still a lot more information we needed. And we got some of it later that night,
but still there's more there. So are you saying you'll be bringing those different pieces to us? Or will we have
another study session in July or September or something? I'm just trying to figure out how we address all
of these different issues.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I will need to double-back with my staff, to be honest with you. Because we have the
study session. And then I went out of the country, and I just got back. So I haven't had a chance to confer
the interest of full disclosure. But as we go forward, the point of the matter is that there wouldn't be another
study session with the consultants, let me be clear, right? Because we extended that contract.
So that would be something that we can do. And if that's the Board's desire, the communique that we send
out is if there were questions and additional needs, if you guys could synthesize that. Because that'll help
chart the path forward in relationship to what it is that we need to do collectively.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And I will write a letter and email in terms of that. Another piece I would just
mention is that I know they did a lot of analysis on TABOR and the sales tax. I saw their analysis on TABOR
that was given. But when it came to us in that study session, we didn't see any of that. And those, to me,
are really critical. If we're going to suggest we go back for a sales tax or debruising, seeing-- as you well
know, it's a political world around that that I'd sure like to see what the consultants and the team have come
up with on that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, understood. And Mr. Chair, if I can respond to that, that's a clear-cut example.
Because there is the TABOR ad hoc committee. And I know Director Cook is here. And as we look at that
information, we made it clear to the consultant that we did have an ad hoc committee. So those are the
policy issues that I'm talking about the Board would have to decide that wouldn't come as part of the mobility
plan for the future per se. But this is laying the framework for it as we go forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Let's see, we've got Treasurer Whitmore.
TROLY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I think the only a couple of meetings that I've missed on
this Board have been because of the Colorado Municipal League, which I attend on my day job behalf. But
I had missed it briefly with the Chair a couple of years ago. And we didn't really move on this item. And we
talked briefly yesterday to make sure he understood I would not be in attendance.
But we've got Directors Tisdale, Sloan, Buzek, and Cook and myself that have been participants in CML
over the years in our old roles as city council members and/or mayors. And I just think it'd be really beneficial
to send maybe Mr. Davis to the conference in the future, Debra? Or a few Board members that are just a
myriad of opportunities to visit informally or formally with leaders that are very active with RTD, some that
were on the Accountability Committee and so on and so forth.
So I think it's an opportunity that we should take advantage of. Good news, bad news, this event has been
held in resort communities for many, many years in a row as all of the former officeholders and
municipalities know. The bad news is that's going to cease for those of us that attend regularly, because it
is a nice breath of fresh air to go up into the mountains. But however, the next three years, the events will
be on the Front Range.
And two of the next three years, the events will be within our RTD district. The location next year's the
Gaylord out in Aurora. And maybe I don't know if that's in or out of the district. But I presume it's in the
district. And in Loveland, and then I think the next year is back to Westminster. Our local government affairs
folks, Ms. Watson and Ms. Webster, are here.
Obviously, they're here on behalf of other clients. But I did visit with them briefly last night in an event. So I
mean we are probably 40% or 50% of the way of being participants. So I would just recommend that we
look at that in the future with a couple of staff members and certainly wouldn't have to attend the whole
event. And with lodging taken out of the equation, it won't be a big cost for any of us to attend. So just a

recommendation to put on our planning for next summer, Ms. Johnson, if you think that's appropriate. Thank
you, Vince, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: That's a great suggestion. And I think we could have a good impact. We've got a captive
audience of elected officials. Let's see, we've got Secretary Sloan. Go ahead. You're on mute.
MAJORIE SLOAN: I need to answer in advance if there are any questions my response will be I can't
answer that right now. But I thought since we're all gathered, I would like to let this group-- and this came
up when CEO/GM Johnson was out of the country. So I haven't had a chance to connect with her yet. But
I talked to an old friend, Lily Griego, who-- she's a Wheat Ridge District M. resident.
She's worked as a contact person for Senator Bennett. She was in charge of the census for our area. And
now she is the region Director of Health and Human Services. So we were talking. And you should know
you don't just talk to Lily and she says, well, let's talk that over further. She gets excited about things and
picks up the ball and runs with it.
But she sees a role for the Department of Health and Human Services and behavioral health and mental
health and the connection with transit, as well as the health effects of reducing greenhouse gas through
transit. She would very much like to get involved. Particularly, now infamous Washington Post article is top
in her mind. And she would like to work with RTD in determining a path forward for a role with the
Department of Health and Human Services. I don't know anything more than I've just said. But I think it's
exciting. And there are possibilities there. And Debra, we can talk later. Yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: Now, great. Thanks for that opportunity. And I would ask you and GM/CEO Johnson to get
together some time and flesh that out and see if there are opportunities for them to work with RTD. That
would be great. Second Vice Chair Catlin, please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I really appreciated Troy's suggestion about becoming active CML. And I was
going to just tag along and say that there may also be some opportunities at Colorado counties' CCI. And
I think particularly because of our discussion with multiple Directors in one County, that might be a really
good way for us to provide liaison to our county commissioners.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that comment. And I do believe there are two organizations for counties.
I know Broomfield got out of CCI and joined a different county organization. So something to look at. Director
Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Right. I agree with all that in terms of connecting and engaging with CML as it meets
every year. That's just a wonderful opportunity. Same thing for CCI and the other organization. I just wanted
to ask if it's possible ahead of meetings where we're taking up some really important stuff like the mobility
plan for the future or the SOP.
If you have backup and you can get it to us earlier, GM/CEO, I'm one of those people who kind of plods
through stuff and is better prepared if I have a chance to look it over ahead of time. So I would just say
when we can, ahead of a meeting, have all the material that you have prepared, that would be really
wonderful. Thank you so much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. GM/CEO Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Director Cook. And yes, most definitely. I believe this is
under Other Matters. So I didn't know this was going to be on the agenda.
SHELLEY COOK: No, I just raised it because it had come up sort of tangentially as Director-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Sorry about that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. No worries. No worries. I thought I missed something so that's why I commented.
But of course, if we can prepare materials, we will work with the Board Office. Ms. McManus and I have a
recurring meeting. And so more than happy to do that. And we review the Executive Committee agenda.
So Chair, maybe I can work with you on that if we can get some of these items in advance if people have
other matters perhaps. Then everybody will be better suited to have an engaged conversation, I believe.
VINCE BUZEK: Perfect.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And I'll be able to respond as opposed to tap dancing. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Good tap dancer. Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I had my hand up earlier, Chair, before we moved on from the bylaws
discussion. So when we were speaking about the timeline, we really wanted to try to articulate a timeline
for bringing any and all changes forward in the bylaws. What Director Guissinger and Sloane have
articulated is that they want to bring forward their one item in the July cycle.
So are there any thoughts as to-- my suggestion was that we would bring that forward as a bylaw change.
Do we have any sort of consensus on that? I just have to make the Director successful in how they bring
this forward so that we have all the information for all the Directors to understand. We had spoken in our
smaller meeting about bringing this forward to the full Board as a discussion item.
So it sounds to me if we're bringing it forward in the July cycle, would we have a discussion item in one of
the committee meetings, which is really not a committee of the whole? Do we have a discussion about this
on the Board meeting agenda, which we have already just approved? Or do we just bring this forward as
an action item next month in Executive Committee with this single item change in the bylaws to move
forward and then worry about a holistic timeline with all of the governance documents down the road? I just
need some clarity for my office as to how we're moving that forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Directors Guissinger or Sloan, do you want to address that now, or would you rather have
this discussion offline?
MAJORIE SLOAN: Well, since I noticed I'm already muted, I think maybe a phone conversation with
Directors Guissinger and the office staff might be more helpful than getting the Executive Committee
involved in how to proceed in terms of details.
VINCE BUZEK: That sounds good. And this is kind of your thing. So why don't you guys set that up, but
please no later than Monday or Tuesday. Let's get moving, keep the moment. All right? McManus, is that
helpful?

BARBARA MCMANUS: That is helpful with the single item that they want to bring forward. But it doesn't
give me any guidance as to how you want to move forward with all of the governance documents moving
forward. It just gives me guidance on that one item.
VINCE BUZEK: Well Directors Sloan and Guissinger, I would ask you, you're kind of taking this charge. So
why don't you continue to have that discussion as well? Not just the one item, let's get everything nailed
down.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine.
MAJORIE SLOAN: OK, so you're expanding our mission to include bylaws at this time. Is that right?
VINCE BUZEK: If you're only bringing one action item forward and not addressing the rest or anything else,
that's fine. It's fine. But I guess Ms. McManus just wants to know if that's the case or not. So you guys will
have that conversation and resolve that. I appreciate it. Any other matters come before the Executive
Committee? Seeing none, roger. Thanks, everybody.

