November 14, 2019
Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: Ms. McManus, are you set?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. All right. Ladies and gentlemen, I will call to order now the Thursday,
November 14, 2019 meeting of the RTD Board Executive Committee. We're convened at 12:00
PM here in the RTD Board conference room.
And I will note for the sake of the record that I, Doug Tisdale, as Chair, am here. And just for the
sake of time, I'll note that Director Natalie Menten is present with us. Our Assistant General
Manager for Safety, Mike Meader, is with us.
The Board Executive Manager, Barbara McManus, is with us. The Secretary of the Board, Jeff
Walker, is with us. The Second Vice Chair of the Board, Angie Rivera-Malpiede, is with us.
First Vice Chair of the Board, Peggy Catlin, is with us.
The General Manager, Dave Genova, is with us. And the Treasurer of the Board, Shelley Cook,
is on the telephone with us. And Shelley, just because the camera can see everybody else but
can't see you, can you just acknowledge that you're here?
SHELLEY COOK: I'm here, sir. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. We also have a member of the
Fourth Estate with us, Mr. Nate Minor from CPR. Is there anyone else on the telephone with us?
All right.
I did indicate we will now be somewhat time-sensitive. General Manager has a meeting with
some of the Metro Mayors at the Chamber at 1:00, so he'll have to leave at about 10 till 1:00 to
get over to that. But Mr. Meader will be his stand-in for the balance of the meeting.
And just as a preview of the agenda, there is one other matter, and that relates to the matter we
discussed last month concerning Director Shontel Lewis's request for information. We had gone
through that, and there was some commentary relative to the fact that the request as submitted
would exceed the policy that the Board has in place relative to using four hours of staff time for
pulling matters together.
Just for your recollection, if you look in your resource guide, our Governance Manual, under tab
1 is where that policy exists and is set forth in writing. In any event, I have promised Director
Lewis that if she joins us by telephone, we'll take up that matter whenever she gets on the line.
She has, however, indicated that we could go ahead and discuss the matter without being on the
line.

All right. So the first matter on the agenda is the November Board meeting-- by the way, I'm
sorry, other matters that other Directors or Members of the Committee bring forward, of course,
we'll discuss too. I just wanted to give you a heads up on that one matter. First item on the
agenda is the November Board meeting agenda review where they open it up to the Members of
the Committee any comments or questions relative to the November Board meeting.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Madam Treasurer?
SHELLEY COOK: I don't know that this relates to our meeting, but the GMOC-- as much as
anything, I'm inquiring here-- the GMOC that day to take up, I think, the first step in processing
the evaluations for the GM. I'd earlier inquired about how that part was handled.
When I look back at prior years, it looks like sometimes that body convened in an Executive
Session. And I don't know if we would need to act on that today in order to make that possible if
the Committee decided it wanted to do that. So I'm just asking that, because this is new for me.
DOUG TISDALE: That's an excellent question. Thank you for asking. The answer is no. The
Executive Committee does not have to take action on that. The GMOC and Chair Broom-- and I
actually have a call into him today to inquire as to his desires-- but you are quite correct that that
meeting after the evaluations are received, I think, is probably fair to say more often than not is
conducted in an Executive Session And I would anticipate that Director Broom may do that, but
that would be a vote of the General Manager Oversight Committee at that time, i.e. on Tuesday.
Madam Second Vice Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Chair, I did talk to Director Broom and asked him that very
question if it would be an Executive Committee. And he said, no, it would not be. So that's what
he told me about-DOUG TISDALE: OK. And I'm not sure if-- I mean, that's certainly his initial indication, but
thank you for sharing that that was the result of your conversation with him in your visit. But as I
said, it's not for this committee to decide that. Chair Broom, as a GMOC, will make his own
independent decision on making that an Executive Session.
All right, but back to this agenda for the Board meeting. Are there any comments, questions,
concerns, issues relative to the items for the November 19 Board meeting? I will note just for the
sake of the record that, obviously, the issue of the promotional fare pilot program for the N Line
is something that has received some attention.
And I think it is appropriate and fair to say that within a span of 20 days from the time that the
issue was brought to the attention of Director Buzek, and myself, and General Manager Genova,
and others responding to concerns that have been raised by legislators relative to this particular
possibility, a proposal was crafted, circulated, discussed, and approved in the Committee. So if
nothing else, it does prove that this Board can be speedy in its resolution of various issues that
come up.

Are there other issues associated with the agenda that-- and I will note too just for the sake of the
record, because quite often people ask about this-- there is an Executive Session scheduled for
the 19th relative to litigation matters as indicated in the agenda. Any other comments on the
agenda? Ms. Menten, I have a motion to approve the draft board meeting agenda for November
19, 2019.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
JEFF WALKER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the First Vice Chair, and I have a second from
Secretary during the discussion of that motion. Hearing none, all those in favor, please indicate
by saying
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed?
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: There are none that are opposed and it is unanimously approved. Turning to
other matters-PEGGY CATLIN: Chair? Excuse me.
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Since we did not have a ad hoc committee meeting there won't be a report
from you prior to going into Executive Session.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for making sure that that's on the record. Yes, as we discussed
before, the ad hoc committee has a commitment made to the Board to meet monthly to discuss
litigation matters. We were unable to get one schedule between now and next Tuesday night, and
so the will not have anything specific to report out at that time.
That said, the subject matter that the ad hoc committee reviews will be the subject of the
Executive Session at the Board meeting, so the Board will directly hear all fifteen from the
General Council and other persons relevant and knowledgeable to that situation at that time on
Tuesday, November 14. All right, relative to other matters let me ask first, Director Lewis, are
you on the telephone with us? Director Lewis, are you on the telephone with us?
All right, with her authorization she has requested that we bring this matter forward to the
Executive Committee without her being here to comment on it. Specifically, you will recall that
she had submitted a number of requests for information to the Board office requesting that staff
expend the time necessary to answer the questions that she had, particularly in a compilation of
documents and gathering of certain information.

The Board office, pursuant to the policy previously referenced, made an estimate of the time
necessary to respond to these various questions. The estimate from the Board office was that the
total time required would be something between 23 and 33 hours to provide the information and
so, therefore, Director Lewis was advised that the Board office could spend four hours and do
any project that she wanted and put the rest over.
Or, as you all know, each Director also has the right to file a CORA request-- Colorado Open
Records Act request-- for information. But that is treated as any CORA request that may come
from the fourth estate or from citizens or others and that there are costs associated with that.
There is a footnote to that that the Executive Committee may adopt a request for information and
instruct staff to provide that information and it would not be subject to the four-hour rule.
It would also not be subject to the payment of the costs incurred in responding to it, but there is
not in that case also the obligation to proceed under CORA because there are no charges.
Therefore, the time for a response might be extended beyond what CORA would otherwise
provide if someone submitted a CORA request. The one suggestion that Director Lewis made
was, well, perhaps other Directors would be willing to donate their four hours to her so that their
time could be used in compiling this information.
That generally is where we stand except that, I believe, that Director Lewis had indicated as to
the request she wasn't asking for as broad the information as was indicated. And I know we gave
you copies of this last time-- I don't know that we've printed up copies this time because I didn't
know if Director Lewis wanted it to go forward or if she wanted to speak to it. But for example,
she asked for all upcoming 2019 and 2020 contract renewals. She then amended that to say, well
no, just those that are subject to Board approval.
Well, that's obviously a much smaller number and so, therefore, the original estimate of between
one to 10 hours probably would be changed. The same thing, all contracts pertaining to physical
security from 2015 to current with an estimate of five hours. Again, she modified that to say such
contracts that are subject to Board approval, so obviously it would be less than the five hours. Do
we have, Ms. McManus, any information from the responsible staff as to what those numbers
would be given that change?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. Brian Iacono and I have not been in touch today yet.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. In any event we know that we're talking somewhere between 23
and 33 hours, a number of these have already been responded to as well, so those are resolved
because the information is readily available. Let me ask first is Director Lewis on the phone at
this point? All right, so what are the thoughts of the Executive Committee?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Just a point of clarification, what are the number of hours they're
thinking at now since she revised her-DOUG TISDALE: I think we just handed this out, so now you have it and you see-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: This says 23 to 33.

DOUG TISDALE: That's what I had said earlier, that it was-BARBARA MCMANUS: The only amendment was to the first line item on the contract
renewals and I don't have that answer yet.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, so those first two items that talk about all the contracts, those would
have added to it "that are subject to Board approval". If you wish to write that in, you may, but
let the record reflect that as to those first two requests she has specifically stated only those
contracts that are subject to Board approval. That amplifies my comment that I made earlier that
the time would obviously be less because there are fewer contracts. So you now have before you
that sheet that reflects the hours. Comments?
SHELLEY COOK: Could somebody take a photo and text it to me? I don't have the sheet in
front of me and I wasn't present during that part of the discussion last month. Peggy Catlin did
kind of fill me in, but I don't feel like I have enough before me to really make a judgment right
now. I would say as a matter of course that, to the extent they are policy-related-- what I've heard
so far seems to be-- either through the Study Session that we have coming up or, if it's not
onerous to provide the information, even if it is a bit more than four hours, I would say let's try to
do it.
DOUG TISDALE: And I believe the Second Vice Chair-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Just sent it.
DOUG TISDALE: Just sent you a picture of the document so that you can see it.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Other comments? I'm sorry, were you not done? I'm sorry, go on ahead,
Treasurer.
SHELLEY COOK: No, no, I'm done. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Other comments?
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: With respect to a list of real property, when I went to the workshop on TOD
and parking I asked Henry about an inventory of property and he said he had that. Maybe I
misunderstood, but it seems to me that we have that in some sort of a database.
DOUG TISDALE: I'll look to the Executive Manager and General Manager to respond. We'll go
to the Executive Manager first.

BARBARA MCMANUS: When I spoke to Susan Altes, she told me that the list that was
previously provided to the Directors is two years old and that she would have to make
adjustments to that by going to multiple databases.
PEGGY CATLIN: And that's what would take six hours? OK. But would she need to do that in
the normal course of business anyway, update it?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, if she hasn't done it in two years, I guess the answer is no. The
document is two years old. But, I don't know.
DOUG TISDALE: The understanding that we have is that we do have a list, it was produced to
all Directors two years ago. That list can be made available at any time without any request and
without any further burden. Updating it requires, we are told, review of a number of databases in
order to add any properties we've acquired-- which I assume would be a pretty short exercise-and then to explore any properties that we might have disposed of. But, General Manager, you
had a comment.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, I think Barbara McManus covered it well.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so that's what we have. The point is, we are advised by AGM
Stopplecamp's department that it would take about six hours to update that list, is what it comes
down to, bottom line.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do we need to have the Board catering budgets since we just got
all that information?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, the request was 2004 to current and there is-- we used to do it a
different way before I started here, and a lot of those contracts are past the time limit for record
retention. So I don't know how much other than what I've provided we would be able to get
anyway.
DOUG TISDALE: And can you expand, what have you-- because you have just recently
provided information in response to this-BARBARA MCMANUS: I did an overall average dollar amount for the past three years.
DOUG TISDALE: The past three years?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, along with a list of the caterers that we use which is an average
of 20 per year. And what we try to do is diversify those caterers within all of the Director
districts.
DOUG TISDALE: And we have requested Director Lewis if, in light of that information, she
would want to amend this. She has not advised us yet whether she does. The request before us is
2004 to present, so for the last 15 years. We have information for the last three years. The
request is information for the last 15 years.

SHELLEY COOK: Maybe just cut it to three hours at this point. What do you guys think?
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, again, I couldn't hear you.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, forgive me, Chair. I just was tossing out for a suggestion, since it sounds
like we could do the ones in the last three years most readily-- unless, I guess, it would be nice to
ask her what the reason was for going back to 2004? Anyway, without knowing that, my thought
was on that one item, that maybe we just provide immediately the three years since that's more
readily available.
DOUG TISDALE: That's an excellent comment, Treasurer. We have already provided the last
three years. That's the point. We've already provided that to all Directors that information.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, that's the point Angie made. Sorry about that, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, so we have that. And we do have a request in to Director Lewis
whether she still wants to have the other 12 years before that, and she does not responded to that
yet.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Other comments? Yes, Secretary.
JEFF WALKER: All contracts pertaining to physical security from 2015 to current-- I don't
know what that means. Does that mean personnel like Allied or hardening of assets like a new
gate or security cameras, or all of the above? I guess-- do we know what the aim or what the
purpose is? Is it curiosity or is there some goal? That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: In any event, I think the restriction that Director Lewis has advised us of-that is, such contracts that are subject to Board approval-- would in any event greatly reduce the
purview of that. But beyond that, I can't answer the question. That's something that we have to
get from Director Lewis, yes.
JEFF WALKER: And that was-- I was looking at item 2, row 2.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
JEFF WALKER: OK. I just don't know what kind of security that is, if that's physical, personal
against humans, or against equipment?
DOUG TISDALE: Right. Let me ask General Manager to comment. Because I know you've also
had-- have you not had some discussions with Director Lewis about some of this stuff? I'm
trying to recall, General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. No, just a general discussion with her about this. She
was asking me status of-- and all I reported back to her the last time I talked to her about this was

that we didn't take it up at the last Executive Committee because she wasn't on the call or at the
meeting. And then I just referred her to follow up to you. But I would think this probably
pertains to our uniform security contract.
I could just give you a quick rundown of what we would have. We'd have uniform security
contract, and we would have our off-duty police arrangements with several cities, we have a
maintenance contract for all the security systems, keeping everything in a state of good repair,
follows all security-related systems, access control, video, those kinds of things.
Probably outside of projects and outside of fleet there probably is not any separate security
contracts for install of equipment or things other than those that I mentioned. And typically I
believe those-- and I haven't checked with Brian Iacono, our Senior Manager of Procurement on
this yet-- but typically those contracts fall under our annual recurring operations and
maintenance requirements of the District so they stay typically-- those kinds of contracts
typically don't come to the Board.
JEFF WALKER: OK. And do-- I don't know if I got an answer to this just because I might have
been thinking about something else-- but do we know what the full scope or the reason for all of
this information is?
DOUG TISDALE: I, personally, do not.
JEFF WALKER: And the reason I'm asking is because this might be-- whatever the goal is-might be compiled someplace else, and when it's disassembled like this it might not be evident
that this document exists. It might not exist, but it might be easier to assemble. So that's why I'm
asking, if there's a goal that's already being worked on.
PEGGY CATLIN: I might be speculating on this, but I think a lot of it had to do with looking at
ways that we could trim the budget. I think that was-JEFF WALKER: That's my guess, too, but I don't know, so I was hoping that somebody would
know.
DOUG TISDALE: At least we have the benefit of some speculation, and that's better than
nothing, but it's good.
JEFF WALKER: Sometimes.
DOUG TISDALE: Other-SHELLEY COOK: So-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I just-- oh, I'm sorry. I just have one question.
DOUG TISDALE: Treasurer, if you'll wait a second, I got Second Vice Chair who wishes to
speak.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't understand why it would take four hours to find the dollar
amount of discretionary budget for the Board Chair.
BARBARA MCMANUS: For 2004 to current.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Could you-- yeah. So isn't there just a set budget, or is she
asking for specifics on what that budget was spent on?
BARBARA MCMANUS: In my mind it's going back through all of the budget documents to
find what that dollar figure was over time because it has changed. For instance, right now-SHONTEL LEWIS: Hello.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, just-DOUG TISDALE: We've just spent the last 15 minutes talking about this, Director Lewis, so
we're delighted you could join us. You're not interrupting our agenda, you're on the agenda.
That's great that we can actually have the Directors pose some questions directly to you. Just by
virtue of very brief summary, I've pointed out and we have a copy of that list for the Director, do
we? OK.
I've pointed out that the first two items you have advised would be modified. The stake in the
first one, all upcoming 2019-2020 contract rules that are subject to Board approval.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: And then in the second one, all contracts between physical security from
2015 to current that are subject to Board approval.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so I spoke correctly on that. We have some questions and let me let the
Directors ask the questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I was just asking a question about the dollar amount of
discretionary budget for the Board Chair from 2004 to current, and I just wanted to know will
that really take four hours and what was it specifically that you wanted to know on that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm not sure of these hours-- I actually received this yesterday, the hours.
I've asked a few times and I just received it last night, but I don't know about these hours. These
hours came from staff, so I can't answer that half of the question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But this question itself, what were you thinking on that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I can answer the question itself for you. I'm just curious, considering that we
were having conversations about cutting the Board budget, and I wanted to be sure that we were

being equitable in those cuts. There were some things that I know come through the Board
budget that we weren't aware of, and this is one of them. So I was interested in that.
DOUG TISDALE: I think the question was going back to 2004 if there was some particular
reason for that date that you had?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, I was just curious if we've seen increases over time and if those things
have changed, if we've seen shifts, and where might the opportunities be that we might think
differently about our budget.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. All right, that's fine. And the other question is-- because you obviously
have seen the first column on this since October since you're the one who created it. Were there
any changes on any of these that you wanted to propose at this time other than the first two that
we've discussed-- "that are subject to Board approval", in quotes-- as the language to be added?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have something that I might suggest, and if the suggestion is not
something that you are interested in, then I won't change it. The list of real property? Maybe that
can just be an update to the Board so that can come to one of our committee meetings? I might
just be interested in that, just in general. I sent an email yesterday about the-PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: There is a list of real property, but it's two years old.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I read that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So-SHELLEY COOK: Can I chime in on that one?
DOUG TISDALE: All right, let me recognize the Treasurer now. Please, go on ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: This is on the list of real property. I believe it was Henry who was telling me
that part of the reason it's hard to assemble that is there are lots of little remnants, small parcels-5,000 square feet or something. I wonder if there's a way we could-- I think it would be useful to
have some grasp of just how many parcels, where they are, how big they are, that sort of thing.
But if it makes it easier to winnow it down by substantial square footage, we'd have to decide on
some amount in any one particular location.
So in other words, if there's 10,000 and 10,000 and 15,000 in one location, maybe it's worth
recording those. But if there's only a little remnant from a construction project or something, a
little bit of right of way that's left over and it's not insignificant amount, then maybe those don't
have to be brought to the Board right away in this piece here.

DOUG TISDALE: General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, may I ask just a clarifying question? I know we have our list of
surplus properties, so there are properties-- is that what we're talking about? The list of surplus
property or a list of all RTD property?
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's my understanding.
DOUG TISDALE: Your question is directed to Director Lewis, not to Executive Manager. Are
you looking for every piece of property that is owned, including the stations, Union Station?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Not necessarily. I'm most interested in properties-- so I know that there are
properties that aren't going to come to us that Susan Altes has the authority to be able to do what
she wants in terms of transactions with. I'm just curious if there are properties that might come to
the Board. And I don't think there's any way for you all to be-- sorry, I'm not trying to exclude
you-- I don't think there is a way in which you all would know.
We might receive an unsolicited proposal and then we may be in a space where we may not need
to have a conversation about those transactions. But I'm just curious if we are aware of what the
properties that we might have available to us and if those at any point could come to the Board, if
you could give us an update of some sort.
DOUG TISDALE: So it sounds like that's the surplus property is what you're identifying.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Correct. I'm not talking about current property that-DOUG TISDALE: And I think the information is we do have the two-year-old list and the point
is we're told to update it. It would take apparently six hours to search these various databases. I
think it's an interesting question, there's no doubt. Director Menten, did you have a comment?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can I ask a follow up?
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Is it not useful for staff to have a list that's not updated? I mean, two years is
quite some time that's passed to not have that recent information. So I'd imagine it might be
useful data for you all to have as well.
DOUG TISDALE: And then, General Manager, if you want to respond to that?
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, let me discuss that with Henry Stopplecamp.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Before I comment, yes, Director Menten.

NATALIE MENTEN: Besides Director Lewis's request, this has been a request that we have
made for all the years that I've been on this Board and what we have, from memory, really gotten
as a Board is a surplus property list. But my belief, having looked at the audit department's tasks,
I believe one of them is all of our land holdings.
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair and committee members, there is, I believe, an ongoing audit on
real property. The breadth and scope of that, though, I'm not sure because I haven't seen the draft
report on that yet. But I know there is an internal audit being done in the real property area.
NATALIE MENTEN: And to speak further to that, I've had an intense interest in this now for
several years and had to go to the extent that, using a real estate buddy's access to the listings, go
in and pull records that a real estate agent would do, and the problem is that in using the deeds,
the name of the property holder, it could be everything from Regional Transportation District, RT-D, to-There's quite a variety and some of them even have a misspelling which makes it quite a long list
that needs to be filtered and weeded. And then on top of that, I believe any property holdings that
we have that would fall under the COP also have their own RTD, and also, I'm escaping, would
that be Title 8? But this is something that other members of this Board besides ones sitting here
today do want.
DOUG TISDALE: And just for the sake of the record, because I don't want it to be
misunderstood by anyone, there is such a list and it was provided two years ago.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't know that I believe that.
DOUG TISDALE: You don't have a recollection of it, I understand that, but we have such a list.
It was provided two years ago, and let's make a note now to circulate that list to every member of
the Board-- the two-year-old list-- so that there can be no question, but that every Director has a
copy of that list that was created two years ago. Madame First Vice Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: I would appreciate knowing what the timing of that audit is, that it would
then come before the Board. Would that satisfy your request here if we go through the normal
process of the audit to get the information?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Do you have the time? Because it might.
PEGGY CATLIN: It would be nice to know what the timing is of that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm not opposed to it.
DOUG TISDALE: We could definitely find out that information. We might have to just table
this again--

PEGGY CATLIN: In the normal course of doing business.
DOUG TISDALE: As we've done with other items to get further information. But we can find
out from the audit department what that is. Mr. General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Thanks, Mr. Chair. I can. Anne Marie is out today, but I can check in with
her on that tomorrow.
PEGGY CATLIN: That would be great.
DAVE GENOVA: And also let me check in with her on the scope of that audit, because I'm not
sure whether they're looking at lists of properties-- it's probably more focused on the control
processes of land disposition more than anything else is probably what the audit is focused on.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: But the point is, the question remaining is the two-year-old list will be
circulated to all Directors so that everybody has that. The update may be responded to by virtue
of this audit, and we can determine that, or this request may be over and above that and that
might still take the six hours and we can-SHONTEL LEWIS: The audit? You're speaking specifically for the audit, that it may be above
the four hours? Is that what you're saying? I just want to clarify. I'm not sure.
DOUG TISDALE: What I'm saying is the audit may provide the information you've requested.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Gotcha.
DOUG TISDALE: That's one possibility. It may not. If it does not, then the request would still
be-- in essence-- update the two-year-old list.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, but you also-- so one piece that you may have missed-- you could also
update the two-year old list but just provide regular updates to the Board in one of our committee
meetings. That would be helpful.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, and I hear both you and Director Menten saying that and there's a lot of
merit to that. The question would be if staff could in AGM Stopplecamp's department have a
protocol put in place where that could somehow relatively easily just be generated on a periodic
basis to update.
If a new piece of property comes in, it goes on a list that says "New". If another piece of property
is sold, even if it is only 400 or 500 square feet, that has value. It might be $400 or $500, but at
least it has value. That could be on the list. That sounds like a pretty reasonable request.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And we can talk about the cadence. We don't have to discuss that here.
When we bring that to the Board, but just be interested in that.

DOUG TISDALE: Right. All right, Secretary, did you have-- OK. Relative to real property, I
think we may have a resolution on that. We haven't heard back-- and I'm sorry. Just to update
you, Director Lewis, we asked Brian Iacono, relative to the first two items on the list, since
they're constrained by the qualifying phrase "that are subject to board approval". It would be
obviously less time than is listed here, and so the question is, well OK, how long would it take if
we were to reduce that? We haven't heard back from Mr. Iacono at this time, the Executive
Manager tells us.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director? May I ask Director Lewis a question? What-- how did you define
physical security?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm glad you asked that because, actually I asked just general security, but-Well, I'm glad you asked.
PEGGY CATLIN: Before you came.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I wanted to know specifically about folks who would be securing our
stations, who would have contracts securing our buses, our trains, heavy rail. And so we have
technology security and I wasn't quite interested in that cyber security. I wasn't quite interested in
that. I was just interested in physical security.
PEGGY CATLIN: The people.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That we might contract out to protect the individuals.
JEFF WALKER: Just the personnel, not the-DOUG TISDALE: Excuse me, excuse me, just-- excuse me, excuse me, excuse me, excuse me.
Please.
JEFF WALKER: I apologize.
DOUG TISDALE: One at a time. Remember it's being recorded and it has to be transcribed.
Sorry. For those of you who ever have had to testify in the legislature, you know how
painstaking they are. We're a little more relaxed, but we have to have some sympathy for John
McKay who has to go through this record. Please, Secretary.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I apologize for that earlier interruption. So you're just interested in
the personnel, not the physical assets that secure a facility?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Correct.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Other questions? Madame Second Vice Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Based on that, are you looking not just for physical,
but who holds the contracts? Like who it is that we hire to do the physical security?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think that would be revealed once the information was provided. I'm not
looking for individual, like, this is John Smith who provides this service.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, but the companies, what companies get the contracts and
stuff. OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: Other-- oh, there was, excuse me. Before I forget, because I'm age
advantaged and I might forget some of these things. We have provided-- looking at Board
catering budgets and actuals from 2004 to current. We just provided to all of the Directors
recently, within the past two weeks, a listing of all the catering information for the last three
years.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: This is a request for all catering information for the last 15, and we wondered
whether you were still curious after having that to go back to 2004, and we wondered if you had
any thoughts on changing that one.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Let's come back to it.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Help me out, what does that mean?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just need some time to process it.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, OK. OK. Well, as I said-SHONTEL LEWIS: Let's go to a different item and we'll come back to it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. We'll probably end up tabling this so that we have a chance. This
is very useful because then, I think, when we bring this back up the Board will have-- the
Executive Committee will have an opportunity to say, well, just prepare this anyway. I'll tip my
hand right now and say I'm inclined to say on the list of real property, we just need that
information anyway. But some of these others they're your particular inquiry and we want to
make sure that we respond to that, but we have to abide by the rules.
SHONTEL LEWIS: If you're interested in my thinking behind the Board catering budgets and
actuals from 2004 to current, one of the tasks that we were asked up very recently as a Board is
to dig deep in cutting Board expenses. And so I wanted to see over the years have we seen
increases or decreases, were there opportunities for us to dig a little deeper. I do think there were

opportunities to dig a little deeper and we may not have as a Board, but that's where that general
inquiry came from.
DOUG TISDALE: Good. All right, so-- and again, you may consider changing it, you may not.
We're not trying to say that you have to or that you should. We just want to understand what
you're asking.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Madame First Vice-- is that a-- are you raising your hand or just-- I think
we have answered each of these at this point. Secretary?
JEFF WALKER: So two-SHELLEY COOK: One more.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. Treasurer, yes. All right, let me go to Treasurer first. She's
been patient. Please, Treasurer.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And she has to leave.
SHELLEY COOK: No, not at all. I'm just going down the list. I don't know if we took up the
idea of the FTE employees and whether that can be something that's folded into the Study
Session that's coming up on the 21st. But the question, too, pertains here-- is it important to go
all the way back to 2004 if the last eight or 10 years are fairly readily available?
DOUG TISDALE: I take that as a question to Director Lewis?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, it is. Thank you, yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: If it's available? I wouldn't know if the information were readily available?
DOUG TISDALE: No, I think the question was it is presumed that the information from the last
eight to 10 years might be readily available. You've requested for the last 15 years.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: So you'd like 15 years?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So your question is would I like to stick to 15 years or would I like to
reduce that to a different number? Is that your question? I move to reduce it-SHELLEY COOK: It's only an hour, but I'm thinking of all the requests we all are bringing on
the Study Session for the 21st and what if we could fold it into that session? Would some lesser
amount of years still work in terms of being able to gain some sense of the trend?

DOUG TISDALE: Director Lewis, it's your question, and the question was directed to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Give me a moment to sit with it, and I'll let you know.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Madame First Vice Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: Personally, I would like to see it back to 2004 because that is when FasTracks
passed. And so I think that would give meaningful information as to how the agency has grown
from the passage of the FasTracks plan. So I think it would be, as Director Cook suggests, I think
it would be appropriate in the Study Session.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would take a wild, wild guess that we have a comprehensive answer and
a financial report, the CAFR, available from 2003. I'd actually like to say 2003. And just take it
against a current CAFR and that CAFR should have-ANGIE REIVERA-MALPIEDE: Everything-NATALIE MENTEN: --whatever page it is, probably, an employee count. I'd be interested-- and
I would back you up, and we'll talk about this in a minute with trading hours or give donating
hours-- what was our total payroll? Because I know I was given information with FasTracks
women, even though the employees felt the same, the salaries, in some cases, jumped
dramatically, dramatically, as soon as fast tracks passed.
I'd like to see the salary and the employee count. And it should be really easy to do that with a
CAFR. And I would say all the CAFRs maybe even sitting in those file cabinets over in our little
rooms.
DOUG TISDALE: Treasurer has a question.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, or actually a comment. I did request some of that for the past three or
four years. And it was useful to see the year-by-year amount. So rather than-- I think I heard
Natalie Menten say, let's take the CAFR from 2003 or 2004 and then take the current.
And I just want to clarify that. There is a lot of information in looking at the year-by-year
changes. So to the extent we can do that for the Study, I think that would be more useful than
simply a single number that represents the change over that entire time frame.
DOUG TISDALE: And just for the sake of the record, would you please define CAFR because
the record doesn't know the acronyms.
NATALIE MENTEN: I did say it. But I'll say very clear, Comprehensive Annual Financial
Report, CAFR or some people call it "caye-fer." But that's not the right way. It's "cah-fer."

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate that. All right, and so I hear that relative to-- and I
know the General Manager has to leave in just a few minutes, and I'd like to conclude this if we
can-- relative to the FTE item, the suggestion is made that that might be useful for the Study
Session as well. And it is just one hour. And maybe that would be something we could benefit
from.
Relative to the Board catering budgets and actuals from 2004, I understand, Director Lewis,
you're saying you want it from 2004 to current, correct?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, and relative to the dollar amount of discretionary budget for Board
Chair, again, you want from 2004 to current and that's not modified, correct?
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, and the others are already responded to zero because there is no time
needed. The staff organizational chart, again, also has been provided. So we don't have any time
for that that we need to expend.
Out of these items, the one that I have-- and this is why I'm asking this question now-- the one
that I have that we are specifically suggesting as a committee could be responded to prior to and
as a part of the Study Session next week on the 21st is the FTEs.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And that's from 2003 or 2004 because it sounded like-DOUG TISDALE: Well, that's going to be an issue for Heather to respond. This request for
FTEs is from 2004. It's probably not a major inconvenience to make 2003 part of that as well if
we're gathering that information.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'd like to honor that request.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, my sense is there is a consensus amongst the Board that we would, as an
Executive committee-- I'm sorry, a consensus on the Executive committee that as an Executive
committee, we would submit this request-- newly added or coming FTE employees between
2003 to date. Let me ask first if that's a sense of consensus. Any objection to that? All right, so
we have instruction on that. Madam Second Vice Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: A question on the FTE-- I would like to see, if at all possible, the
number of FTEs we hired for FasTracks and what we have currently now that many of the lines
are open. Is there a reduction in that FTEs? I'd like to see that in terms of the number of people
we have. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: That's a legitimate question. And I think some of it may perhaps-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It may be--

DOUG TISDALE: --could be responded to just by virtue of the compilation of the information.
But since we're asking this be ready for the Study Session, I think that probably is something we
can give fair notice to our CFO on. Secretary?
JEFF WALKER: So that there's the biggest benefit for the time spent, does it matter what
department those FTEs are in-- does it matter the department in which those FTEs work? And
I'm assuming that means FTE equivalency-- I'm sorry, engineering vs. communications-SHONTEL LEWIS: I think its all of it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --an agent thing?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah , so you're not just getting a number by year. But you're getting a number
and department by year-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, function.
JEFF WALKER: --which you probably-DOUG TISDALE: Folks, one at a time.
JEFF WALKER: I'm sorry. So that we wouldn't receive just a number of all employees of the
agency, but a number by department because that speaks more to the level of effort that's going
towards a certain effort. It might mean more effort compiling that information, but if it doesn't
give the full scope, the full sight of what activities were going on, it might not be worth even that
effort.
Does that make sense? Make it big or don't do it at all. That's what I'm saying.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, no, I hear the observation. And it actually reminds me that we have to
go back to one issue because we-- I believe in the committee meeting-- did not clearly state-- and
I think the Executive committee should take action now to state clearly-- that the Thursday,
November 21 Study Session will consist of two parts.
The Study Session on the agenda is addressing operator shortage. We've discussed the
advisability, the merit, and the benefit of having a Study Session following that discussion
relative to the budget. But I do not recall that there was a formal motion made to have a Study
Session to that effect. I would suggest that the Executive committee, at this time, indicate that
yes, there is a second portion of the Study Session on Thursday, November 21 to address the
budget discussion that was discussed in detail by Treasurer Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair, for wrapping up that missed end. I would make that
motion if you need me to.
DOUG TISDALE: I do.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, so with that we just formalize what you had just mentioned that we
would be having a-- there goes the class bell-[LAUGHTER]
--that we would be having a second Study Session that night to deal with the budget and the
information also sought regarding the pension contribution.
DOUG TISDALE: Exactly, so is there a second to that motion?
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a second. Is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all
those in favor make it by saying aye.
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed?
SHELLEY COOK: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: There are none opposed. That passes unanimously. It's just important
formally that we confirm that. Going back to Director Lewis's request, that one relative to newly
added or coming FTE employees between 2003 to current, the Executive committee has
expressed a consensus that that information be compiled and be ready for the Study Session on
Thursday, November 21.
Relative to the other items, Director Lewis-- and, again, as I said, the last two have been
addressed and are resolved and the one about staff organizational chart has been addressed and is
resolved. The other items, Director Lewis, at this point, other than the change to the first two that
says, "that are subject to Board approval"-- that language being added to the first two-- did you
have any other changes?
Oh, and I'm sorry a list of real property-- I think we indicated that the creation of the update to
the list two years ago-- which list created two years ago will be circulated to every director-- that
that update is something that the Executive committee determines to be appropriate, reasonable,
and beneficial to the directors. Is that a fair statement of consensus? Madame First Vice Chair?
PEGGY CATLIN: I would agree. And I would add that it would be done in the normal course of
business.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, yes, Secretary?
JEFF WALKER: Are we speaking just about fee property or easements of licenses also?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I will let staff tell me that.

JEFF WALKER: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, and the difference is property that we own as opposed to property that
we might just have a right to cross over and use for something. Ordinarily, we don't market
easements back and forth. But property that we own, or fee property, as it is called that we own
in fee simple absolute-JEFF WALKER: Something fungible?
DOUG TISDALE: Right-JEFF WALKER: Alienable?
DOUG TISDALE: --that we might be able to liquidate and sell-SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: --and create revenue.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I mostly would really like for directors to not be caught off guard. Go
ahead.
JEFF WALKER: So there's a possibility that even when we see this list, there might be some
properties on there that can't be sold because they're not legal parcels? Because they don't fit
Denver's or Thorn's or-DOUG TISDALE: Right.
JEFF WALKER: --somebody's zoning code? So that's just a heads up. Even though we might see
a ton of parcels on there, they might not be conforming.
DOUG TISDALE: That's an excellent qualification because, for example, if there is a 200 or 300
square foot remnant from a construction project, actually, we could sell it but wouldn't be able to
do anything with it as a legal lock, unless, of course, the adjoining owner bought it.
JEFF WALKER: Right, right.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, all right, so it would appear-- and I'm trying to just drive this to
consensus because I know General Manager has to leave-- we're going to, at this point in time,
relative to taking action, we'll table the first two items to December in order to get new numbers.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's going to take-- excuse me.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, again, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's going to take until December to get these new numbers?

DOUG TISDALE: No, ma'am, we're going to have to table it. Because what you've asked for is
whether there's an agreement by the Executive committee that the Executive committee would
adopt this, as-- I've already indicated-- we've done on several, or whether it will be yours. And if
it's yours, it's a question of how many hours.
And then you're going to ask if other directors want to contribute their hours to you to answer the
questions. Because right now, the upcoming contract renewals, the physical security contract,
those are something the Executive committee doesn't have consensus on.
The organizational chart has been responded to. The list of real property the Executive
committee has adopted as a consensus. The FTEs has been adopted by the committee as a
consensus. The Board catering budgets we have to determine. You've requested you want that.
That's going to have to be a request then if other directors will give their time. And then the
dollar amount of discretionary budget for the Board Chair from 2004 to current is a similar
situation. So those four items-- 1, 2, 3, 4-- would have to await further action as to other directors
contributing their time.
But the other items are addressed and resolved and have been adopted by the committee.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I could, also, accept these as they are and pay for these out of pocket,
instead of waiting for other directors to contribute their time and tabling it until December. Is
that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: That is absolutely correct. And that's one of the reasons why on the first two
we're going to get new numbers from Brian. It may be a lot less than he has projected here.
That's the point.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: So we want to resolve that-- I'll get you in a minute-NATALIE MENTEN: Perfect.
DOUG TISDALE: --that's the point. So the items-- and I'll just arbitrarily call these one through
whatever. Number one, we'll wait on to see what Brian says. And you can decide what you want
to do.
Number two, we'll wait on. Number three, has already been provided. Number four, the
Executive committee has asked to be provided. Number five, the Executive committee has asked
as modified to 2003 be provided. Number six, we'll wait on.

Number seven, we'll wait on. Number eight and nine have been provided. Is there any correction
to my estimate that anybody wants to offer-- my summary, excuse me? All right, then that will
be the determination of the Executive committee. Now, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so background on this for our stuff is that this was generated
going back-- you'll see, in our policy, there's a reference to an appellate case called Holiday
versus RTD. And what this was generated from is the 1998, I believe, but maybe a case dated
around 2000. Jack McCroskey, former Board Director, and I don't know the first name but
Holiday.
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: Gloria-NATALIE MENTEN: --Gloria Holiday. This is the old days where we didn't have email really.
So Board staff was asked to write--type out letters for Board directors. And Jack McCroskey and
Gloria Holiday wanted to lay into some people and criticize. And this included letters to the
editor and staff members. And it went to a court case.
And the case pretty much, I think-- and this is where I get a little bit fuzzy-- said, if you're going
to have a policy-- because the staff had stopped responding to Holiday and McCroskey. And they
sued for a First Amendment violation. The court said, you can't just be singling out, I think,
people.
So this is the part where I'm a little bit gray. I'm not going to stake my life on it. But what this
also in our policy states is the four hour limit created did not include transportation issues. This
was stuff outside of transportation role.
I see 2019 and 2020 upcoming contracts. It's 100% transportation issues. What Director Lewis is
trying to do is get a good grasp on it that instead of finding out on a Thursday about a contract
that will vote on Tuesday-- because not everybody has the time and the ability to play tag and
catch up-- that she wants a heads up. And I think other Board directors do too.
And I will say that contract pertaining security-- you betcha that falls under transportation. I will
say these other ones, they fall under budget issues that we're in a severe crunch. She is trying to
do her due diligence.
The whole four hour policy thing, frankly, I think, is being just abused, misused, abused,
whatever all the words are, in this case. Because it says it's about doesn't include transportation
issues. This was all about McCroskey wanting to roll it into somebody over an issue. And
everybody knows--.
So it also says in the policy where directors can't give their hours to somebody else. I would love
to give you all my hours. And I want all my hours for 2019 that I haven't used because I know I
haven't used them all. But the policy, this baloney policy, says I can't. I don't think you should
pay a dime.
DOUG TISDALE: For the sake of the--

NATALIE MENTEN: I would be willing to sue the agency to get this because it falls under
transportation issues.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, for the sake of record let, me just point out the suggestion has been made
not that any director give their hours so as to violate the policy, but, rather, that the director
would adopt the request. And also, for the sake of the record, the case that Director Menten
addresses is also in your governance manual. It's under tab one.
The case, the policy, all the discussion and all the history is in your governance manual that you
were given when you were given orientation by the Board. It is also, in case you don't have a
manual handy, available on the website. Just go on the website, click on Board of Directors. And
then over on the right side click on governance manual.
All that information is there. So you don't have to rely upon anybody's summary. You can read it
for yourself. It's all there. You can look at it on your phone, on your laptop, whatever. All right,
any further discussion on the request?
General Manager is already late for going over to see the metro mayors. But I know he wants to
have an option to speak. And I'm sorry, Director Menten, I have to go to General Manager now.
NATALIE MENTEN: But these bonuses?
DOUG TISDALE: We'll come back to you. We'll come back to you. I promise.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: I promise we'll come back to you.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So any other matters that I'd like to bring up? Just a
couple of brief items-- I wanted to make sure the Executive Committee was aware of the
schedule on reporting out some of the information we're gathering through our public outreach
program. So that's going to be at the Study Session on November 21st. So that's next Thursday.
So I think what we'll have is the first half of that Study Session will be the report out on the
public outreach and some other information that we want to provide you about just the status of
where we are. And then we'll have the budget conversation. And we'll talk about this in detail at
the Study Session.
But to just give the Board members a bit of an idea what to expect regarding scheduling-- we've
talked a little bit about this previously. But after the November 21st Study Session, depending on
the information and the input and the direction we received from the Board, we're looking at

either December or January bringing back to the Board some ideas on some proposals around the
temporary service reduction plan.
So again, we would be looking at either December or possibly January. Our preference would be
December. Of course, it's going to depend on the input we receive. And it's going to depend on
the direction from the Board.
And so I think our collection period ends today, tomorrow. And so we'll be spending some days
analyzing. So we really haven't seen a summary of all of the information yet. So we don't know
what that's going to look like.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And General Manager, I just want to say, I did send a reminder out to
all the directors yesterday for the December 12th date-DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Just so they would have it on their calendar to wait to hear what your
decision is on the timing, bringing it forward.
DAVE GENOVA: And that again would be another Study Session on a Thursday. And assuming
we do bring something to the Board in December, then it would start to look very much like a
regular run board process-- so then going out for public comment in January, coming back to the
Board in February, and possibly making a decision.
And then what we don't know is the timing to be able to do-- would we just do the May run
board? Or is there an opportunity to do something intermediate or not? So we have service
planning looking at that right now. So we're just saying spring right now before anything would
go into effect.
Tomorrow we have a local governments planning meeting. And so I'm going to go through-- and
it's really all intended to get input around this. But I'll also talk about that timeline a little bit
tomorrow. Because we're seeing a lot of questions about what's the possible timeline. And so I
just wanted to make sure the Executive committee was well-versed on that. So if there's no
questions on that, or if there is-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have one question.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I was a little surprised this morning when I received this email
about this event that you two are doing on December 6th at the Ellie Caulkins Opera House and
wondered when that was decided. And who decided it would be you guys to do that? And what's
the purpose of it?
DAVE GENOVA: That's my annual forum to the employees.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's not to the community?
DAVE GENOVA: No, it's an employee-- yes, and I realize that it wasn't really clear-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
DAVE GENOVA: --when I saw that this morning. It's an employee forum.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah that is-DAVE GENOVA: So and I do it every year about that frame right around the conjunction of the
State of the District that we do for the Board and the public. So that's an employee event. Has it
been in the two-week calendar?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Mmhmm.
DAVE GENOVA: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah-DAVE GENOVA: But thank you for asking.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's right. It's an annual, scheduled function that General Manager
does. The Chair really shows up to do a welcome. It is a General Manager forum.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything else before-DAVE GENOVA: Just a couple of quick items-- I just want to make sure the Board is informed.
I think you've heard us talk about this a little bit. Heather mentioned it the other night. The
Colorado Office of the State auditor is wanting to do their next performance audit of RTD next
year.
And so we're working on scheduling an entrance conference with them, which will probably
occur sometime in December. And we don't have very many details. I have heard maybe they
want to look at farebox recovery.
You know, there's the state farebox recovery ratio. And then there's another recovery ratio that
we have that we use operationally and in revenue wise. But I think that's what they want to look
at. Additionally, we'll be in a triennial review season next year too. So we're already compiling
documents for that FTA triennial review. So it's going to be a busy year from a review and an
audit perspective.

In the end line elected officials update that I'll put out either today or tomorrow, there'll be a little
bit more information in there. In addition to the road map, I'm going to include a couple of the
scatter diagrams that actually are of a couple of the grade crossings. So you'll actually see here's
the program warning time.
And there's some data on there that shows where they're performing at today so you can get an
idea. So I think one example looks fairly good. And then there's another example where we still
have a lot of adjusting to do. But I just wanted to-- because you'll see just a couple of different
things in that end line update.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might ask the question regarding that?
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was made aware this morning that a number of elected officials up north
have changed. They either were not re-elected or, in the case of the mayor, Brighton was
recalled. But I think a more detailed update would be in order given you may have several new
elected officials.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, so we just did an end line elected officials update last Thursday.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: There was only a few elected there was the downside of that. But also I've
asked CRL to set up a new mayor briefing so we can at least sit down with all the new mayors
from the region here soon. So and we're looking at maybe doing that over a lunch hour.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent, thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, you're welcome. And I think they're the main things I want on the
Executive committee to get a heads up on. I apologize that I need to leave. I'm going to the metro
mayors Transportation Committee meeting.
They just asked me to come yesterday because they want to talk about RTD today. And we didn't
know we were on the-- I don't know if they knew we were going to be on the agenda until just
yesterday. So that's where I'm headed. Mike Meader will stay for me.
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: Thank you, thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much-DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: --General Manager. We appreciate it. All right, we'll come back in just a
moment. I promised I would. I will. But all right, so-- yes, Barbara?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Since the General Manager just spoke about the local government
meeting, I just wanted to remind everybody I sent the update of the location yesterday. Because
there are so many folks that RSVP'd, they needed a larger room. So just the two week calendar
we updated, but the one you've probably seen had a different address.
DOUG TISDALE: It will be at the Denver Post building.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Auditorium, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, OK, other matters? Secretary?
JEFF WALKER: This morning I sent to all of the Executive Committee members a question I
had about some of the expense reports I've seen. I think they can be cleared up with just
additional information. But I didn't have it at the time. So I had to question, and I didn't get back
to the people who submitted them.
So one told me that they will get back to me with additional info and why the expenses were
raised and where the other one we're still waiting to hear. So well, I guess, in general, can we
send something out to, you know-- it's in the policy-- provide information, state business
purpose, et cetera?
But can we send out a reminder from the committee since we're the ones who sign the expense
reports to please provide additional detail, as much detail as possible? I know some Board
members do that already, a separate page full of stuff. But it's always helpful when more-DOUG TISDALE: So your request is basically that we just send a reminder to the directors to
please follow a policy, which includes give adequate information?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Other-- yeah? Madame First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just came from the E-470 Board meeting. And I am the representative from
RTD to that Board. And Troy Whitmore is the alternate. Given that the Reimagine RTD
committee meets every other month on that Board date and both Director Whitmore and I are on
that committee, we probably need to have you appoint another alternate.
And the district's through which E-470 passes are G, F, B, and K. And Director Whitmore is
from K. But the other two would be Director Mihalik, Director Broom, or Director Lewis.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent.
PEGGY CATLIN: So those are just my thoughts. Obviously, I don't have a district along the
corridor. But I have experience on the Board. I was on the E-470 Board previously. So I would
still like to attend every other month. But we probably need somebody as an alternate.

DOUG TISDALE: OK, let me ask, what time are those meetings?
PEGGY CATLIN: Those meetings are Tuesday or Thursday mornings, the third-- whatever third
Thursday of the month? They're always the same day as the Executive committee meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: And they are at 9 o'clock in the morning.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: And they usually only last until 10:00.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, so 9:00 to 10:00, Thursday mornings, same day as exec-- let me save a
phone call and ask Director Louis right now whether you have any interest in being appointed as
the alternate to the 470 Board?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can I think about that?
DOUG TISDALE: Of course, I figure I'll save the phone call and say, all right, think about it.
Because the only other options are Director Mihalik and Director Broom as First Vice Chair
points out. Those are the three people-- you, Director Broom and Director Mihalik-- whose
districts contain some of the 470.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I understand that.
DOUG TISDALE: So that's the information just so you have it. It's the same day as the
Executive meeting, third Thursdays, 9:00 AM to 10:00 AM. And where do they meet?
PEGGY CATLIN: At the E-470 Board office, which is 6th Avenue Parkway, or Steve Hogan
Parkway and E-470, although they are going to be remodeling their office space for security
issues. And they may start holding meetings in different jurisdictions. So that could be just by
way of community outreach.
I might point out that Director Broom was on it prior to me. And he had a conflict, which is how
I ended up being on the Board. I don't know if he still has that conflict or not.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you, appreciate that. OK, all right, any other matters before I
go to the Director Menten, let her clean up today? Actually, I should go to Mr. Meader as well.
But I'll go to Director Menten first because she's been very patient. And I know she's anxious to
speak more.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm always patient, yes. So for the script on that, is that a voting position?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.

NATALIE MENTEN: So you should know that when you go there, you don't get a vote.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: You're welcome. So I'm going to go back to the expense report-- not
expense report, the request from Director Lewis because I wasn't really-- in the two items that
were closed out, it seems that bonuses from 2004 to current and new members of SLP received
bonuses. I'm not sure if this is a wording thing.
But my understanding was there's a pool of money, maybe it's not called bonuses. Maybe it's is
called merit. Maybe it's called something else. But it's something on addition to the salary.
And that pool of money, after all the reviews are in from employee evaluations, is divided up in
some way or another. Now, Director-- I mean, GM General is gone. Now you're left in the hot
seat.
[LAUGHTER]
MICHAEL MEADER: Director Menten, there has been-- my understanding-- and I haven't been
here in a long time-- but there is a merit increase typical assessment that's done based upon the
appraisals that are done. And so if you achieve a certain rating on your appraisal, then you are
basically entered into that pool opportunity for a merit increase. If you know, they talked about it
in the last budget meeting moving that sum from 3% to 1.5%.
That's the merit increase pool that's in the budget. So it is typically about 3% since I've been
here. And the suggestion was that move to 1.5% as part of the budget reduction, if that's what
you're talking about.
DOUG TISDALE: And I believe that is a salary, not a bonus.
MICHAEL MEADER: That is correct. It's an increase to the salary. So it's a merit increase to
your salary.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you for clarification.
DOUG TISDALE: I thought there might be some confusion. I just wanted to make it clear.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, now we want to do-- I am one of the ones that Jeff Walker
asked about back up documentation on expenses. And unfortunately, he's left, but I'll give-there's three that have been held. And when this memo was sent out, perhaps we're going to need
some more space or something on the spreadsheet.
Because, as an example, what I reported is a discussion-- I met a fellow in Golden who-- and I,
on an expense report, said Golden colon ride versus 16L, Tom Scott This is total 22.4 miles

round trip. And that was questioned so I've now taken time to print out a whole paragraph that I
met him at Safeway.
It was just pure mileage. He doesn't have internet access, did not know that the 16L serves him
better to get to his job at Walmart. I was questioned about my expense line saying W line to G
line versus old route 17. And this is about the new route 125 and lady whose parents don't speak
English. So I met her to describe. But I had W line to G line versus old route 17, again, mileage.
What further, additional information should we-- I also had inspect Welton lot, three trips. And
that's because of the Welton street property. And I spent way too many hours. But I had three
trips to that lot to evaluate the parking because we've been told it's not needed for parking.
So I evaluated on Wednesday, Friday and weekend. But I said, inspect Welton street, trip one,
parking institutes. They're all just bad. What expanded information does this Executive
committee want?
DOUG TISDALE: Let me provide a response for the first instance and then have Executive
Manager and supplement. My first question is, did you give this information that you've now
shared with us to Secretary Walker.
NATALIE MENTEN: No, because he said it about, I don't know, this morning.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: I sent it to him yesterday, or said, what's the holdup? Or what's the
problem?
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: And so-DOUG TISDALE: All right, the answer is no. The point is, you have that information. And you
can give that to him. And I assume that he'll approve that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, but those lines were in there. So are we writing full paragraphs on
trips now, or what should we be doing?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, some of us do, by the way. But I think in the first instance-- just
because we really have gone one at great length here today on a lot of non-Executive committee
specific items, I'd just like focus on this. I believe in the first instance, the request that is made is
that you have some explanation for some detail providing that, rather than just did this trip on
this date, inspect Welton. If you can give some expansion on that, I think that's what the
secretary was asking.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Um--

DOUG TISDALE: Let me just go to the-- because I promised Executive Manager first, if she has
any comment. And then I'll go to you, Second Vice Chair.
BARBARA MCMANUS: If I could have that sheet, I can have that discussion with Director
Walker because I haven't had-- he didn't let me know that there was any issue. So I don't know
specifically what more he would be looking for.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, good, that will work. Second Vice Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So after I received Director Walker's email, I went back and read
up the job description of the secretary, which just does not include determining whether an
itemized item is worth being approved or not. I can tell you in the past, I had an item on there for
a luncheon with someone at Denver Union Station and was called and asked, actually, told that
since I worked with poor people, that this was too high of a cost.
So when I look at this, I think that what it says is you put in who you're meeting with and what
the purposes is. And really, that should be all that should be required. To actually then make an
assumption about a Board person's reality, may be completely different.
So there was one cited about, I don't know, a taxi instead of a light rail three blocks away. I don't
know if that person had a knee injury or, you know, there's a lot of stuff. So I would just caution
us to not be Big Brother, but, in fact, just add another column that says the reason for the
meeting. And you put it in there. And you approve it.
I think we're all elected officials. We're all successful in our own right. And I don't think we need
to be governed over like a big brother. That's really kind of what it feels like to me. So that's all.
NATALIE MENTEN: I do want to follow up because I was very furious.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: The other night when Jeff Walker came up to me when I have two public
meetings-DOUG TISDALE: All right, Director, no, Director, I'm sorry, wait a minute. Hold it.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: We try to avoid expressions of personal feelings, particularly directed at other
directors in this meeting. I think it's more than appropriate to share those privately. But I am just
going to request that when it comes to expressing personal feelings about individual, directors,
that maybe we can avoid those expressions in the context of this meeting.
I think it's something that we would all be better served if we had private conversations. I leave it
to your discretion now. I'm not stopping you. I made a suggestion.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so I think the Treasurer is out of line. It's a general term, right?
The Treasurer is out of line-PEGGY CATLIN: Secretary
NATALIE MENTEN: --when they're coming-- Secretary, I'm sorry. No offense, Shelley, sorry.
[LAUGHTER]
When they're questioning whether I'm really having a public meeting or not and want to buy
refreshments and have given pre-warning that I'm going buy refreshments for what I hope will be
two very large meetings. I find it extremely offensive.
It is also very distracting when we're in a meeting that I have our Secretary come up and state
that he doesn't know if, basically, he trusts me enough that it's a public meeting. Extremely
offensive, I can't tell you how furious I was the other night. So I now have stated my piece, thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Any other comments from anyone? Yes?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I just wanted to make the comment that Director Walker
generally signs all the expense reports. He has not been comfortable signing some in the past
where we ask either the Chair or other Executive committee directors to sign those. So there is
that option as well. And I just wanted to throw that out there.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, I appreciate that. Mr. Meader, I too have to be downstairs for
another talk with employees. So let me ask if there's anything you have to add in the three or four
minutes remaining?
MICHAEL MEADER: Mr. Chair, I have nothing to add.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. Madam Treasurer, do you have anything that you would
like to add-MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: She signed out. She's in class
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, she did. I'm sorry. I didn't hear her.
PEGGY CATLIN: She's been gone for half an hour.
DOUG TISDALE: Excuse me. Madam First Vice Chair, anything further to add?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Second Vice Chair? All right--

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: My granddaughter turned three on Saturday.
DOUG TISDALE: And in which case, let the record reflect that we all say congratulations.
MULTIPLE SPEAKERS: Happy Birthday.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, then let the record reflect that as of 1:25 PM, the Executive
committee stands adjourned. Thank you all very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

