## I. Executive Committee Agenda

Chaired by Doug Tisdale

#### 1. Roll Call

I.                Call to Order

Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 12:06 p.m.

Committee members in attendance:               Chair Tisdale, 1st Vice Chair Menten, 2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler (via phone), Treasurer Lubow, Secretary Folska, Ph.D.

Others present:               Dave Genova, General Manager, Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, and John McKay, Board Office Administrator, Anna Carochi, student at Metro State University of Denver

## II. April Board Meeting Agenda Review

Chair Tisdale briefly reviewed the April 17th, 2018 Board Meeting agenda. He noted that three retirees would be recognized and stated that five items would be voted upon by the Board, three on the unanimous consent agenda and two under recommended action.

Motion:               Director Menten made the motion to approve moving the April 17th Board agenda to the full Board.

Director Folska seconded the motion.

## III. Other Matters

Chair Tisdale spoke about the Board’s video recording project, which was nearing its go live date. He indicated the current meeting minutes would be streamlined as a result of the implementation of the video project. He indicated that the Board had selected a vendor to provide closed captioning of meeting videos, along with transcripts available in electronic format. He reviewed sample copies of the transcript along with examples of the streamlined minutes format. He stated these documents would be available with the along with the video recording. He said that the question has come up regarding whether the video recordings could be reviewed at high speed, and he said that the recordings would be exportable files, though the files themselves would not be made available on the Board website.

Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, stated that the video recordings would be available to the public starting via the Board website starting with the June 2018 meeting cycle. She said that, also starting in June, the meeting packets would be sent out by the close of business on Thursdays, rather than Friday afternoons.

Chair Tisdale noted that the ability to deliver the meeting packets on Thursday was made possible by the change in the approach to the minutes described earlier. He said that transcribing minutes in a shorter time frame for inclusion into the packet would have placed a significant burden on staff. He reiterated that the streamlined process of creating annotated abbreviated minutes, along with the public’s ability to access the entire meeting via video recording, allowed staff time to distribute the packet on Thursday afternoons.

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether the meetings would be captioned in real time.

Ms. McManus responded that the captioning would be done after the fact.

Director Folska, Ph.D. asked where the public would be able to see the videos recordings.

Ms. McManus explained the process, wherein staff would retrieve the video recording for a given media, send it to the closed captioning vendor, download the captioning and transcript files after they are prepared, and revise the files as necessary before uploading the finished product for public consumption. She said that the Meeting Portal would be the repository for the video recordings and transcripts, whereas the portal only hosted agendas and minutes previously.

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked when the captioned video recordings would be available to the public.

John McKay, Board Office Administrator, explained that the entire process would take about one calendar week, largely predicated by the turnaround time of the closed captioning transcription process. He said that the captioning could be prepared at an expedited rate, but also at a significantly higher cost.

Ms. McManus noted that, because the meetings were being streamlined, the cost of captioning the meetings would likely fall within the amount budgeted for closed captioning service, which was $20,000 per year. She said the cost of hiring a videographer to record meetings on a weekly basis would still need to be determined.

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether the video recording would only take place in the Boardroom at 1660 Blake Street in Denver.

Ms. McManus replied that the Board Conference Room, the room in which Executive Committee meetings are held, was also equipped with recording equipment.

Chair Tisdale said that the current meeting was being recorded and indicated that staff had been recording meetings for some time, but only for testing purposes and not for public consumption.

Director Folska, Ph.D., noted that her television show used closed captioning, and she said the captioning for a 30-minute show was turned around in 24 hours.

Mr. McKay reiterated that the captioning for meetings of the Board could be expedited, but he stated that each jump in turnaround time was accompanied by increased costs.

Director Menten asked the budget for the project.

Ms. McManus said that the closed captioning budget was $20,000 and that the videography budget would depend on the response to the request for quotations (RFQ) currently underway.

General Manager Genova added that the recording system was integrated with existing resources and was user-friendly and that the finished product was compliant with ADA and other accessibility guidelines. He noted that the cost of live captioning made its implementation unfeasible at present but noted that advances in software could lower the barrier to entry in the future.

Director Folska, Ph.D., replied that the licensing cost of captioning software was relatively low.

Director Lubow asked whether other government agencies offer live captioning and how they are able to do so.

General Manager Genova said that other agencies do offer live captioning but said that RTD was held to high accessibility standards.

Ms. McManus added that RTD had its own rigorous internal accessibility standards.

Chair Tisdale said it would be good to find information on whether the City of Denver offers real-time captioning, and if so, what product do they use and at what cost. He suggested that the Colorado Municipal League (CML) might have helpful information on the subject.

Ms. McManus said that, at the beginning of the project, staff reviewed several options and found that many of the vendors would have required RTD to overhaul its infrastructure in order to provide recording capabilities. She said that RTD’s Safety, Security, and Asset Management Department provided the cameras an infrastructure necessary to get the project off the ground; otherwise the costs would have been substantially more.

Chair Tisdale said that it was well advised to be cost-effective in the transportation industry and suggested that the prices of live captioning would undoubtedly come down.

General Manager Genova noted that the accuracy of certain captioning options left much to be desired.

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether automated captioning and transcription would make the jobs of the Board Office staff easier.

Ms. McManus replied that things would only be different. She said that, with the shift to Thursday packet delivery, it would open the possibility of staff having four-day work weeks.

Director Lubow reiterated that, for the sake of comparison, the Board should review what video accessibility options the City of Denver was employing.

Chair Tisdale stated that the information regarding Denver’s video accessibility would be useful, and he said that his sense was that Denver paid top dollar for accurate expedited service.

Ms. McManus added that she had experienced a similar shift in the technology landscape during the procurement of the Board’s agendas and minutes and voting software. She said that, when the agency went out for quotes in 2010, IQM2 was the only company whose bid met with the Board’s existing budget, and she noted that IQM2 had subsequently been purchased by larger companies. She said that the current company had honored the contracted service rates of the previous company and cautioned that future costs may be high due to the lack of competition in that segment of the marketplace. Ms. McManus also gave an update on spouse/family ID badges for RTD employees and Directors. She said that in the past Directors were not able to give passes to certain non-nuclear family members, but she announced that a change in policy would open the eligibility to other family members, including parents and life partners. She said that further details would follow. She stated that the spouses of Directors or retirees would be the only persons eligible to keep the passes indefinitely, with some conditions.

Director Lubow asked who made such decisions.

Ms. McManus said this was a human resources (HR) decision

General Manager Genova said the change could have been suggested by the internal benefits committee but noted that changes in the realm of HR allowing greater flexibility were driven by changes in law.

Chair Tisdale gave an update on the summary report from the joint Board/SLT Strategic Planning retreat in March 2018. He said that the report could be considered final, since he had not received any additional comments on the draft report. He also stated that a report regarding an overview of FasTracks would be forthcoming, with a target date of April 30 for an internal version of the report. He noted that he was also working on synthesizing disparate guidelines compiled over the years regarding the conduct of Board meetings, which he would present in a draft summary to the Executive Committee before the final guidelines would be submitted to the Board for final approval.

Directors Menten and Lubow inquired as to the guidelines to which Chair Tisdale was referring.

Chair Tisdale said that the Board had previously adopted various individual codes of conduct for the Board Meetings, and he said he was seeking common ground on how to proceed to combine those guidelines.

Director Menten asked to receive copies of the original documents.

Ms. McManus responded that they would be distributed.

Chair Tisdale said that the draft of the combined document would be sent out as well.

Director Menten said that there had been discussion among the Directors that the meetings were too long, with an underlying message that Directors should not ask too many questions. She said it was her hope was to have as much discussion as each Director’s district deserves from their representatives.

Chair Tisdale said that he had not heard any complaints stating that Directors asked too many questions. He said that he had previously asked Directors to explain their no votes on recommended actions because he felt it was important to know their reasoning. He said the goal of streamlining meetings was to respect everyone’s time and intelligence. He stated that, by asking the presenters to relay only pertinent new information not already included in the packets, the Directors would have more time to ask questions.

Director Folska, Ph.D., said she agreed with Director Menten that Directors complained about others’ asking too many questions. She said she felt it important that Directors be given the chance to ask relevant questions rather than being allowed to go off on tangents. She agreed with Chair Tisdale that the staff had gotten better about condensing their presentations.

Chair Tisdale said that the job of the Chair was to appropriately and sensitively allow conversation to go on as long it is fruitful but to close it when it becomes redundant.

Director Deadwyler stated that she had previously complained about meetings being too long. She said that what she saw as the Directors tendency to one-up each other to prove their intelligence needed to be stopped.

Director Folska, Ph.D., suggested the Directors were getting better at that.

Chair Tisdale, regarding the General Manager Oversight and Performance Review Committee (GMOC), said that he was working with Directors Walker and Menten to come up with a more streamlined and consistent description of the committee’s role and function. He said that he had a copy of the 2010 resolution that created the GMOC and said that it contained language that was inconsistent both within the document and with the General Manager’s contract. He stated that he wanted to set aside time to look for a better and more workable articulation of those things.

Director Lubow said that Director Menten and she had been reviewing the General Manager’s performance goals. She said that the narrative document outlining the goals was too wordy and stated her preference for the corresponding table.

Ms. McManus said that the GMOC moved to the table the previous year.

Director Lubow said that she found a previous form to be more helpful but stated that it was no longer available.

Ms. McManus said that the form was not gone and stated that the GMOC never populated the General Manager’s accomplishments using that table. She said the table could be reproduced and added that the detail memorandum that was provided in 2017 was less wordy than the previous narrative document but provided more bullet points that were never detailed in the table.

Director Menten said she agreed with Director Lubow but suggested that the discussion could take place elsewhere.

Ms. McManus said that the chart could be made to look however the Directors wanted.

Director Menten asked whether Director Lubow would receive notifications and packets for the GMOC even though she was not a member.

Ms. McManus confirmed that she would receive them.

Chair Tisdale said that all Directors were allowed to audit the GMOC though voting was limited.

Director Menten said that Chair Tisdale had mentioned changing the process regarding the recommendation of committee relative to the discretionary performance payout, so that the entire Board would determine the amount rather than the GMOC.

Chair Tisdale said that it was agreed that the GMOC’s role was to address the oversight and performance review of the General Manager. He clarified that the committee’s function was not simply to handle the General Manager’s job evaluation, though that may be the committee’s principal function. He said that, in the event of a health issue or other circumstances, the GMOC would address the matter and provide guidance to the Board. He added that the discretionary performance payout available under contract was a decision item of the Board as a whole, not one set by the GMOC exclusively. He said that problem in the past had been that the committee’s decision regarding the amount of the discretionary performance payout had previously been viewed as a final decision, when the decision should have been made by the full Board.

Director Menten said that was the process when the GMOC was formed in 2010, but she said the process had since changed.

General Manager Genova said that the committee currently functioned as it did since the implementation of new procedures and that the committee put forth on action to address both the performance evaluation and the discretionary performance payout. He noted that the Board had two committees that did not act as committees of the whole, the Executive Committee and the GMOC.

Director Lubow asked whether the recommended action was included in the Board packet.

General Manager Genova recalled that it was included.

Ms. McManus said that there was a process change along the way. She recalled one instance in which the recommended action was sent to another committee before being approved by the full Board. She added that, for the previous three years, the members had been invited by the Executive Committee to participate in the discussion of the approval for the recommended action but said that Directors outside of the Executive Committee had not shown up.

Chair Tisdale said that the current changes were being made so as to look and feel better to the entirety of the Board. He said he had the opportunity to put Directors on the committee who were able to see that change.

Director Folska, Ph.D., said that those Directors who were not members of the Executive Committee were not allowed to vote until the recommended action reached the full Board.

Ms. McManus responded that was correct, but she added that Directors were invited to speak during the Executive Committee.

Director Folska, Ph.D., said that her comments were not appreciated when she attended in years past.

Chair Tisdale said that the optics had been addressed to make the GMOC function better.

Director Deadwyler said that she had been on the Board since 2011 and had served on the GMOC. She said that in years past it did not matter whether Directors attended the final committee meeting, because the decision had already been made at that point. She suggested that Directors attend the last three GMOC meetings in order to come to agreement with committee members.

Ms. McManus said the Directors would receive the GMOC agendas and supplementary materials and would be alerted when the General Manager presented his accomplishments.

Director Lubow agreed.

Chair Tisdale said it would behoove him to do personal outreach as well, since the General Manager’s performance review was one of the Board’s most important discussions.

General Manager Genova stated that two topics would be discussed during the April 24th Study Session, the General Manager’s tactical goals for 2019 and a detailed update on the Pass Program Working Group recommendations.

Chair Tisdale reported that he, along with Director Solano, Sherry Ellebracht, RTD Government Relations Officer, and Jenifer Brandeberry from Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK), had met with state Senator Tim Neville regarding his Senate Bill18-204. He said the bill would prohibit RTD from instituting discount fare programs without legislative approval, and he noted that the discussion with Senator Neville centered around RTD’s farebox recovery. He said that the group would need to have a follow-up meeting to discuss a memo released that same day by Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of Finance and Administration. He said that memo gave a full breakout of RTD’s farebox recovery ratios and described how RTD met with statutory recovery requirements. He stated that, based on the raw numbers, it would appear that RTD collected less than the 30% of farebox revenues required by law, but accounting for certain factors, the agency actually recaptured close to 45%. He said that he wanted Senator Neville to know that RTD was listening to his concerns.

Chair Tisdale also reported that the same RTD representatives who visited Senator Neville had also met with Representative Faith Winter in response to a letter sent to the RTD on behalf of most of the members of the House Democratic Caucus regarding the progress of the review of the PPWG recommendations. Chair Tisdale said that the review and possible implementation of PPWG recommendations was an ongoing process for which there would be vigorous discussion.

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked what Senator Neville was hoping to learn in their meeting.

Chair Tisdale said that his only question was about farebox recovery.

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked for an explanation of the essence of bill.

Chair Tisdale suggested that it was something Senator Neville thought might be a benefit to RTD. He said the bill would impose a limitation on RTD’s ability to create a discount program without legislative approval.

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether Senator Neville wanted RTD to consult with the General Assembly regarding fares.

Chair Tisdale said that Senator Neville had specific ask.

General Manager Genova said that the point of the bill would be to prevent RTD from creating a discount program without prior legislative approval.

Director Folska, Ph.D., asked whether the General Assembly would pay for a discount program if they approved it.

Chair Tisdale suggested that they may have never intended to approve such a discount.

Director Lubow asked about the typical farebox recovery rate.

General Manager Genova said that there were two different measures to define farebox recovery and that the memo being prepared by Ms. McKillop would illustrate the differences.

Chair Tisdale said he had received questions regarding the industry standard recovery rate.

General Manager Genova commented that the typical rate varies based on an organization’s operations, fare structure, and other factors.

Chair Tisdale said that the rate would be zero for organizations that do not collect fares from passengers.

Director Menten said that Senator Neville saw that there was pressure on the RTD Board. She noted that the farebox recovery rate was approved by the General Assembly in 1989, based on concerns that RTD may have been receiving a large portion of transportation funding and taking funds away from other areas. She said she had questions about some of the figures described by the memo being prepared and was glad that certain things were being defined.

Chair Tisdale said that he was waiting on an email from Ms. Brandeberry regarding a follow-up meeting.

Director Lubow asked whether RTD could do anything to make Senator Neville pull his bill.

Chair Tisdale noted that 2018 was an election year and said that representatives want to make their constituents aware that they tried to accomplish certain goals. He said that he was fine with the bill if it did no harm but would step in otherwise.

Director Folska, Ph.D., said that sometimes the harm was seen after the fact.

Director Menten said that she would be personally recording the April 24th Study Session.

Chair Tisdale said that he had no hesitation with that and stated that the meetings needed to be public.

Director Deadwyler said she had no comments on the PPWG but would like more information. She said she hoped the April 24th Study Session would be recorded as Director Sisk suggested.

Director Menten said she could do it for less than $10,000.

General Manager Genova said that was the cost of production videos rather than regular meeting recordings.

Chair Tisdale said that the meeting would be recorded but noted that meeting videos would not be put out for public consumption until the June meeting cycle.

Director Menten said she was interested in discussing alerts for users of MyRide.

General Manager Genova said that the Next Ride utility on the RTD website gave either real-time or scheduled bus arrivals, based on whether the buses on the routes shown were equipped with locator devices. He said that staff would prepare some information on this. He noted that, as had been discussed during the meeting on Tuesday night, RTD dispatch was constantly trying to fill dropped routes, and it was his desire not to have to any dropped routes. He said the notifications mentioned by Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, would take place through means other than the Next Ride utility.

Director Lubow said she was told that the Next Ride utility would display canceled runs.

General Manager Genova said that he would have to follow up on that.

Director Menten asked whether information could be sent to constituents.

General Manager Genova responded that the agency should do a better job of teaching people to use existing technology.

Chair Tisdale said that he had tried to use the Next Ride utility and commented that he must be less adept than he though, because he could use transit applications (apps) without issue.

General Manager noted that many of the existing transit apps were not created RTD and stated that staff would also provide information on those apps as well. He said he was hoping to send some information to the Board via his memo the following day.

Director Lubow asked whether the enhanced rider alerts might be available by the end of 2018.

General Manager Genova said he would have to circle back with Mr. Reed.

Director Lubow replied that she would like to be able to follow up with her constituents. She said that, if RTD cannot provide the constituents with rides, the agency should at least give them notifications.

Director Folska, Ph.D., suggested hosting additional more town halls.

Chair Tisdale confessed that he understood constituents’ frustration when using certain transit tools.

Director Menten said that she did not know to look for the Wi-Fi symbol on the route maps, which indicated that a bus on a given route was transmitting real-time location data.

Director Folska, Ph.D., suggested that a tutorial be given in a future study session.

General Manager Genova noted that a demonstration had been presented previously but said another could be arranged.

## IV. Adjourn

Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 1:24 p.m.

## IV. Retiree Awards

Gary J. Fontaine – Sign Maintainer – 25 years

Gary R. Schear – Construction Inspector – 17 years

Jim Sutton – Manager, Asset Management – 27 years

## VI. Committee Reports

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano

Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale

Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler

Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik

GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker

#### A. Construction Award for IFB 37-DE 001. East Metro HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project

It is recommended by Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a contract to JCOR Mechanical Inc. in the amount of $2,840,224 for the East Metro HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project. It is further recommended that the General Manager or his designee be authorized to transfer $551,222 from the Base System Contingency funds to the East Metro HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project. Funding for the contract and the transfer are included in the 2018 budget.

This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goal - Task Goal #3 – Asset Management/State of Good Repair.

#### B. Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH), Contract 16 FO-017 - Contract Amendment #2

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend Contract 16 FO-017 with SEH to allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in the amount of $2,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed Contract amount of $2,603,096.91. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order basis. Funding for this Contract will be included in the individual approved project budgets.

This Recommended Action supports two of the General Manager’s 2018 goals. 1- Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services. 2 - Task Goal #3 – Asset Management/State of Good Repair.

#### C. RTD Director District Precinct Assignment

It is recommended by the Planning, Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors approve the revised Director District boundary between Director District E and Director District G so that all of Arapahoe County Precinct Number 234 falls within Director District E, which has a lower population than District G.

This recommendation addresses General Manager 2018 Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management: Oversees operating and FasTracks budgets, ensures compliance with local, state, and federal reporting, and development of financing plans for future projects.

##### a. RTD_Review_Precinct_234

#### D. 2018-004 : Acquisition of Additional Property Rights (Permanent Easement) –
North Metro Commuter Rail Project

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of Directors pass the attached Property Acquisition Resolution certifying property as necessary for the construction of the North Metro Commuter Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.  Funding of this acquisition is included in the 2018 Adopted Budget for the North Metro Project.

This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goals - Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services

##### a. RESOLUTION---North Metro Additional Properties

##### b. NM-Board Exhibit-Combined

#### E. Approval of NewPush Contract for Hosting Services

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract for “Infrastructure as a Service to Host Smart Media Technology and Ticket Vending Machine Systems in a Payment Card Industry Secure Environment” with The NewPush, LLC (NewPush) (Contract Number 17DH041) for an amount not to exceed $4,000,000.  The contract is for two base years with three one-year options to extend the contract.

GENERAL MANAGER’S GOALS

Core Goal #3:  Strong Financial Management

Task Goal #3:  Asset Management/State of Good Repair