Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 8, 2008
Page 1 of 4
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

July 8, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, July 8, 2008 in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
****

Committee
Members Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Wally Pulliam, Chair; Bruce Daly, Vice-Chair; Noel Busck, Bill
Christopher, Bill Elfenbein, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Barbara
Yamrick
Barbara Brohl, Juanita Chacon, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, O’Neill
Quinlan, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bob Brown, Sherry Ellebracht, Marla Lien, Caitlin
Magee, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed

Others Present:

Holman Carter (ATU Local 1001), Jenifer Brandeberry
(Brandeberry-McKenna)
****
Chair Pulliam called the meeting to order at 4:30 p.m.

Call to Order:

I.

Recommended Actions:
 Recommendation for Contract Award to Brandeberry~McKenna Public
Affairs for State Legislative Liaison Services.
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement for state legislative
liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs, for one year (July
1, 2008 through June 30, 2009) on Contract No. 17-DX-001, at a cost of
$95,000.
Motion: Director Yamrick made a
motion for full approval
before the Board at the
July 15, 2008 Board meeting.
Second: Director McMullen seconded
the motion.
Discussion:

Several directors gave their support to the recommended action.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 8, 2008
Page 2 of 4
Director Daly mentioned that Team Valdez scored very well in the evaluation.
The interview Committee felt that the Brandeberry-McKenna team has gotten
proven results for the District and wanted to stay with them.
Chair Pulliam asked Marla Lien about the board report language. The Chair
suggested that the approval language should indicate that it is the approval of a
one year contract with four options available. Marla Lien concurred saying that
the language should read “The District would enter into Contract Number XXXX
from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009 with four annual one-year extensions
and the rate set forth therein.” The maker of the motion and the second
concurred.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed
unanimously.
Director Christopher asked for an update on the activities of the liaison. Jenifer
Brandeberry reported that they have been meeting with the Transit Alliance/ULI
group that is starting to organize regarding the eminent domain issue. They have
also been meeting with prospective candidates on various issues. BrandeberryMcKenna has hired a new employee (as of November 2007), Jennifer Melo, who
has lots of legislative experience.
II.

Federal Update – Sherry Ellebracht gave this update. There is not a lot going on
in Washington, D.C. at the legislative level. The house committee did pass an
appropriations bill, but there are no earmarks in it at this point. Important
legislation is not expected to pass until after the elections or possibly after the
new Congress convenes.
There was a concerted effort to fix the Highway Trust Fund because it is going
to be defunct by the middle of 2009. It is up in the air at this time how it will be
fixed. The last year of the SAFETEA-LU bill needs to be funded and it will not be
funded unless there is a fix for the Highway Trust Fund. There has been talk of
taking money from the transit fund to fund the highways, but this is not a
popular option.
Cal Marsella said that in regards to the West Corridor, the Full Funding Grant
Agreement (FFGA) application has been submitted. The District is undergoing the
risk assessment by the FTA at this time and good progress is being made. The
application is a $308 million (FFGA) grant on the West Corridor. The District has
commitments from FTA to get the FFGA done by the end of this year.
Mr. Marsella is traveling to Washington, D.C. for a FTA transit security meeting.
He will be having breakfast with the FTA administrator and will be talking about
getting a New Starts “recommended” rating for the PPP projects on the East and
Gold Line corridors.

III.

State Information
 Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) presentation, Tuesday,
August 5, 1:30 p.m., at Capitol (Room TBD) – Chairman McFayden has
requested that as many board members as possible attend this review.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 8, 2008
Page 3 of 4
Jenifer Brandeberry is going to call Chairman McFayden to find out what she
would like to hear at the meeting.
Cal Marsella mentioned that he was going to meet with Russell George,
Executive Director of the Colorado Department of Transportation, about where
transportation in the state is going.
Mr. Marsella spoke about being prepared on the TOD front. The District is in the
final stages of selling two of the nine parcels of land in Ft. Lupton so it will be a
net break-even for the District. He believes this will be a good precedent for the
District in terms of the eminent domain issue.
Chair Pulliam spoke about the need to clean up the TOD policy and for the
Directors to get their changes in by August 8, 2008.
Gwen Green wants to meet with the District regarding context sensitive
solutions for eminent domain. Sherry Ellebracht said that she wasn’t sure if this
was a one on one meeting or talking within committee. The District’s point to
the committee is that there is a process in place and to fully explain the process
to the committee and how the District works within the process.
Director Elfenbein said that the Governor’s Blue Ribbon panel will continue to
meet until the end of the year per the Governor’s request. The panel will meet
every three weeks. They are looking at different ways to raise money for
highways and transit.
Director Elfenbein said that he took a ride out to the old Denver Post plant and
suggested that all of the Board should go view the site and it would help the
Board understand the staff’s recommendations on this site for the bus
maintenance facility.
Director Christopher commented on Jenifer Brandeberry’s statements about
building coalitions on the eminent domain issue. A group has been put
together by the Urban Land Institute (ULI) and Downtown Denver Partnership
named ACT (Action for Communities with Transit).
Director McMullen asked about putting information together for the legislators
regarding the Eminent Domain issue. He would like information on where we
have acquired property and hit the positive side of it. The District needs to turn
its image around.
Director Yamrick said Representative Joe Rice is concerned about the fine
payment on light rail being a felony. Director Yamrick presented an idea of
having some fare machines on the trains that one could use during a fare
inspection to avoid the ticket and pay a higher fare.
Cal Marsella spoke that there would be more elaboration on the Denver Post
building situation at a later committee meeting.
Director Busck said that the District needs to propose a bill along with CML and

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 8, 2008
Page 4 of 4
get legislation passed regarding eminent domain.
Director Martinez spoke about eminent domain and the fact that there will be a
lot of new legislators. We need to educate them about “what is eminent
domain?” How does it work? Show how it protects the landowners.
There was common agreement among the Directors that another group taking
the lead on eminent domain might be better than the District taking the lead.
There are high hopes for the ACT group to carry this issue forward to the
legislature.
IV.

Other Matters – Other matters were discussed under “State Information.”

V.

Date for Next Meeting – The date for the next meeting will be determined at a
later time.

VI.

Adjournment - Chair Pulliam adjourned the meeting at 5:17 p.m.

