2020-08-13 EC
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So we should give it maybe a minute or so. It's only 11:30 right
now. [COMPUTER TONE] Hello. Oh, you know who else? Peggy.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Hi, Madam Chair. I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, great. OK, cool.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I apologize. I have an appointment at 12:30. So I will probably be in
transit getting there for [AUDIO OUT].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. We're just waiting for Mr. Ballard and Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Lynn. OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You were hiding.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Jumped out of another meeting with Pauletta and Christina and
Brandeberry McKenna to get them all set up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, good. Good, good, good. Well, then let's go ahead and get
started. I'm sure Mr. Ballard will be on soon.
Let me go ahead and call the Executive Committee meeting to order, August 13, 2020. It's 11:31.
So the first thing I'd like to do is go over the August Board agenda review and see if we can
approve the agenda for the August Board meeting. Do I hear a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Who so moved?
PEGGY CATLIN: Peggy.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And then I have a second from Director Buzek. Right?
VINCE BUZEK: Sure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. You know what, though? So that's the agenda. Is
there any discussion on the agenda?

SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Two things. One just typographical. I don't know if this has always been the
case, but I just, for the first time, caught that under the committee reports it still shows Director
Broom as head of the GM Oversight Performance Management Committee and Director Mihalik
as head of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee. So just noting those corrections.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And you know what? I didn't notice that until you
said that to me. But Ms. McManus, could we change that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. We made some changes to the template. And it looks like it
must have reverted back to an older one.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: And then the second thing is-- if I may continue. I don't know. Sorry about
that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, please do.
SHELLEY COOK: In talking with Melanie about the idea of bringing up under Old Business for
Tuesday the discussion about Reimagine RTD and what our current status is, and you know I'd
been thinking about that, had talked with Judy in particular, as chair of the two committees most
affected seem like it's Planning and also Finance. And so had been talking with her, with Bruce,
with Heather, with other members of the Board, and think that there is a way to clarify and bring
a greater majority to bear on the process and what we're doing on that.
And so I wanted to see if it's worth putting that on the agenda rather than just bringing it up
under Old Business, but actually having noticed it and including the discussion as an item on the
agenda. From what I understand, that would be a clearer way to do it. So first of all, just wanted
to see if we should amend the agenda. And if the others are game for that, then I would make a
motion to amend it to add under Other Business the Reimagine discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Any discussion on that?
PEGGY CATLIN: I would support that. Oh, I think Barbara's speaking, but she-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Barbara, you're muted.
PEGGY CATLIN: Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have two options. We have Old Business and New Business. We
can discuss it under the Chair's report, if you want to bring it up there. But we can't add a

category, because all of the categories that are listed in this particular Board meeting is approved
by the bylaws.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are you suggesting Old Business?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, Old Business is what I would suggest.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So it's going to be under-- it'll be under Old Business.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And can that be an ongoing agenda item as we move forward, as
we're working through this whole process?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, just like we were having the n, line if we could now put in
Reimagine, I think that would be great. Do we need to do a vote on that to amend the agenda?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, we're not amending it. We're just clarifying what we're going to
be speaking about going forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. Second Vice Chair Cook, does that work, then?
SHELLEY COOK: It does if it's good with Melanie. Melanie, are we are copacetic here?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, I think that's right. I mean, you're just adding, you're clarifying that
you're going to add a specific agenda item under Old Business that refers to Reimagine RTD.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: That sounds good. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Great. So if we could approve the Board packet then.
All in favor?
PEGGY CATLIN: Aye.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Aye. OK. None opposed. So the agenda is set, Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. We have other matters. The first one he has to do with
enhancing meeting efficiency. Melanie, is that-- I'm going to turn that over to you.
MELANIE SNYDER: Well, actually, I think that was some that Paul wanted to cover. I don't
know if he's on the line yet.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, I can add what I know. I don't know what Paul would add to
that. But when he joins in, we can find out.
PAUL BALLARD: [INTERPOSING VOICES]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Does someone have a question?
PAUL BALLARD: No, this is Paul. I'm here and I'm listening.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh. OK, great. Do you want to speak to this, Paul?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, I'd be happy to. I think, if that's all right, Madam Chair-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah. This just really comes from a discussion really last month with the
Executive Committee. And the Executive Committee asked for my ideas on how we could
streamline the meeting. And so I reviewed a few items at the time. Then I prepared a written
summary, which I've worked with Barbara and Angie and others, and that's outlined in your
packet page five and six and seven.
And some of these we've been able to just start, for example, like putting the time limits for staff.
So we're very carefully working with staff members so that we control how much time we take
in introducing issues. And then of course, the Board members can choose to take whatever time
they wish to discuss.
So we're starting with staff discipline, quite frankly, and making sure that the issues that we're
putting on the agenda are appropriately on the agenda and that we set the appropriate amount of
time to present it. So you can see through pages five six and seven, and more than happy to talk
about any of these. These are just some of the things that we're trying to to support the Board by
using your time more economically and efficiently. So that's basically the way I would introduce
this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Could we run through that a little bit, please, what the ideas were?
PAUL BALLARD: Sure. Well, are you on packet page five?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm having trouble getting into it.

PAUL BALLARD: Because we got three pages of stuff. You probably don't want em reading it
all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is there-- I'm having some trouble getting there. Is there some on public
participation? Do I remember that or-PAUL BALLARD: [AUDIO OUT] on public participation but it didn't make it into the final
document. Working with Angie and Barbara, we did not include that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I think that's probably good right now not to make big changes.
PAUL BALLARD: [AUDIO OUT] public entities are doing that, but Angie didn't feel
comfortable with that one. So that one didn't make it into the final list.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Lynn, I'm sending you the Board-- the Executive Committee
packet right now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I'm about to get into it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: One of the things that I thought was really good in the
discussion, Mr. Ballard, was when there's like, let's say, a 40-page document, right, and they're
covering pages 1, 15, 30, where they're highlighting, is that they would take those pages and put
it in the front of the packet. So these are what we're going to be covering. And then the rest of the
packet is backup information.
And so it becomes much more user friendly for Board members to not have to be going through
all the pages, which seems to take a lot of time, like what packet number is that here because
they're different. So we thought streamlining it that way would be really efficient for us to be
able to get to the crux of what we're discussing and be able to address it. So that was one of the
big pieces that I remember.
And Mr. Ballard, you did that in one of our presentations, I think in the last week or so, and I
thought it went extraordinarily well.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. Because I recognize that we send out so much stuff to the Board
members that we need to do our part to facilitate your review. And that's just one step.
Another thing, if we get to the information mailings separate and apart from the packet, one of
the recommendations is that we'll require a half page executive summary that basically says, this
is what it's about and this is our recommendation. So you can look at it. And if it's an issue of

interest to them, they can then read it. And if it's not something that they're particularly interested
in, they can move on to the next item.
So we're just trying to do a number of things to facilitate and respect your time more, not only in
meetings but in preparation for the meetings. I think we inundate you with way, way too much
stuff. The PowerPoints, for example, I'm restricting staff to 10 PowerPoints, a 10-page
PowerPoint at a presentation.
Now in your packet, there may be a lot more than that, because we want you to continue to get
the complete picture. But I want them to focus on the most important aspects of their
presentations and then we can go to wherever the Board wishes to discuss, you'll have the
backup information.
So it's just some commonsense things like that to really facilitate the process and be respectful of
your time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And one thing also, you know, the staff is really
good about responding to questions that come up in our committee meetings, even if those
questions require a response of 10 or 15 minutes in length. And perhaps staff-- and I know it's
hard for them to do this-- but it might be appropriate sometimes for staff to suggest to a Director
that it might be more appropriate to take this question offline and get a response offline, instead
of dragging the meeting out for a long period of time on a response.
PAUL BALLARD: Right. And that's a really good point. And I will try to be helpful. You know,
some staff are more timid about a suggestion like that than others. But I'll try to be supportive of
that. And that's a really good observation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Thank you. Anyone-SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I wanted to get clarification on the idea of ending the live public comment
section and instead have a staff member read into the record. I'm a little bit worried about that
one.
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah. We've already pulled that off.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, it's off.

PAUL BALLARD: Director Guissinger asked about, and that [AUDIO OUT] under
consideration.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, OK. So it's still in the published version.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, yes, absolutely. But one of the things that I'm toying with is
Robert's Rules of Order, where if people are calling in on a specific subject and there's a pro and
con that we alternate them every call. So there's a pro and then con, pro and con, so that we get a
good mix of information from the public.
So we're looking at all of those components. But we absolutely will be keeping public comment
in the queue for sure.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And one other suggestion. To the extent you've got a Chair who's
running the meeting, sometimes in the pre-meetings that at least we have on Finance, the agenda
is still somewhat fluid. So sometimes there pop up items that the Chair and Vice Chair didn't
have a chance to talk with the staff member assigned to that.
And so what I'd like to suggest, and it would help in running the meetings more efficiently, I
think, is to get with the Chair and the Vice Chair about any changes to the agenda that occur after
the phone call or meeting, or however it's handled in each particular committee, so that they have
a sense for what's changed and why, and plus, any thoughts that the staff has about how to
operate or handle that one, OK?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. That's excellent. And I agree 100%.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. I do, too. I think that's really well stated. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I apologize that I did not read this in advance. I've been busy with a lot of
RTD things.
But a couple of them raise questions. One of them says, move all action items from committees
to the board to a consent agenda section. And then somebody has to pull it off of that section.
This couldn't be done without a change to bylaws. So is that coming out right now that we're not
going to do that?
PAUL BALLARD: Barbara actually has a really good answer on that one, if I could ask her to
address that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I would love for you to ask the question again, because my internet
just went down and I had to reconnect on my hotspot
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ah, technology. The item under Board Agendas that says move all action
items from Committees to the Board to a Consent Agenda section. Any items not removed by a
Board member can be voted on by the Board as a whole by a voice vote. And it looks like we
would need a change with the bylaws.

I'm not sure I'm crazy about that. I kind of like leaving it to the Chair to decide whether to do a
voice vote or not.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, we decided we were going to leave that one as well. That
would be a change in the bylaws. And I believe the last Executive Committee meeting, when we
went over these initially, I know at least Director Menten was opposed to that, and I think
Director Tisdale was as well, and reminded everybody that it was part of the bylaws.
So are we going through one by one now? Because when we get to the information items being
posted, I'd like to speak a little bit to that, because there were some questions on that as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So let me just pose the question. Shall we go through this item
by item, just so that we are all on, we've all seen it and talked about it, whether to move it
forward or change it? Are we good with that? OK, cool.
So let's start at the beginning again with the overall consideration for separating information. Mr.
Ballard, do you want to talk about the overall component of this?
PAUL BALLARD: Sure. Absolutely. And the first one has to do with the information items.
One of the things that we've observed, and it may just be getting adjusted to the information, is
that we were still getting bogged down on information items and people were being asked to do
presentations on them. And my thought was, we send so many things out to the Board, if we
could take the information, just the information items from the Board, some of the other routine
reports that we send to you, and just do one mailing a week.
And if we do that half page Executive summary, I think it would facilitate everybody being able
to look at information items, the General Manager's report, and those other things that we send to
you, and put them together in one report so you can more predictably know what's coming to you
and how much time you want to set aside for those.
So that was just a very simple way of doing one separate mailing and eliminating multiple
mailings that we do to you during the week. And a lot of that has to do with staff discipline, once
again, and that if this is something that is appealing to the Executive Committee, then I'll take it
on myself to make sure that the staff follows that discipline and that we work with Barbara
carefully to make sure that we focus on that one mailing a week.
And I think Barbara also wants to weigh in on this as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. So there were some questions about that the last Executive
Committee meeting. And John and I and the team looked into it. And so what we think the
process may look like is all of the staff would get those items to Tina. And Tina would get those
to us on some determined schedule to email out to the Board. If the Board had any questions on
those, they could work with staff or they could request that to be added, I would suppose, to

Other Matters for the Board packet. And there was some concern that some of those information
items would be minus to the public.
So what we would do in the Board Office is take that document and we would post it on the
Board web portal, where we right now post the two-week calendar for the public.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Any discussion on this?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I do, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I have some concern about this. I like the idea of discussing
meeting efficiency. But especially-- well, I'll start with number three, aggressively move as many
items as possible from the Board Committee agendas to the information mailing. And number
two, make no reference to the information mailing on the Board or Committee agendas. You
know, it's our job.
And so I especially would oppose number three, aggressively move items to the information.
There was one last week putting the county allocations. I think there are a lot of problems with
the county allocations. So putting that on the information item, where it doesn't come to the
Board, which is what's happened twice now, raises some concern for me.
And you know, some of the some of the routine reports, know we don't have to go through. But I
do think that there is potential for taking a lot of things away from the Board that I think the
Board should know. We're dealing with this with this Allied Security contract right now, what's
routine and what should come for the Board.
So I don't really support this item, in particular I don't support the second and third bullet. So I'd
probably just leave it the way it is so we see it on our agenda, we can say, OK, I have issues with
this. I just think that's the way we need to look at some of these things.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Anyone else?
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair. Yeah. This is Peggy. I like the idea of reordering the packet so
that you don't have to read through 50 pages to get to the next item, and then reordering it so that
you do have, at the top of the agenda, the action items and those items that would warrant
discussion, as Director Guissinger mentioned, the county allocation might warrant some
discussion.
But I really do like the idea of having the salient points brought to the front and then keeping the
rest in the document but maybe not sequential. I don't know if I'm making myself clear. But I
think that if we bury everything else in a document, we may be accused of-- or in a separate
document-- we may be accused of lack of transparency.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So excuse me. This is Barbara McManus. Could someone give me a
quick overview of what Director Catlin said? It was very, very muddy for me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin was saying that she really supports having the
action items on the top of the packet with the stuff behind it. But she is very concerned about
having other information in a separate document for the lack of transparency. Is that about right,
Director-- First Vice Chair? Oh, now I can't hear her.
PEGGY CATLIN: Hi. This is Peggy.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, there you are.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sorry. My call just failed. I had to redial back in. So I missed whatever
was discussed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, why don't you go ahead and say again what you would
like to do with this?
PEGGY CATLIN: I like the idea of reordering the packet so that we have up front what Paul
Ballard and Barbara were suggesting. But instead of a separate mailing for information, have that
as an appendix to the main packet, so it's all there in one document. I just worry that if we try and
separate it out, we might be criticized for a lack of transparency.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. All right.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Let me go with Secretary Buzek and then with you, Second Vice
Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure.
VINCE BUZEK: So my understanding is with the informational items that may get segregated
from the typical packet and come separately to us, those will still be available to the public on
the Board website. Isn't that correct? I mean, we're not hiding anything.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That is correct. Yeah.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That is correct. Second Vice Chair Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Just wanted to point out a potential conflict with another provision in
here. And I'm really glad to see the mention of going with smaller than the whole committees.
And remember that that recommendation was made to us in the 2010 audit report.
And one basis for that was that you could have the committees kind of delving into things in
greater detail and then sparing the rest of the Board from having to do that. And then in that way,
making the meetings more efficient but not giving short shrift to items that needed to be brought
forward.
So if the general sense is we're aggressively moving as many items from the committee agendas
as possible, then I think that conflicts necessarily with what might be a later, once we flesh that
out, the smaller committees.
So just wanted to highlight that. I kind of feel like at least we need to say, take out aggressively.
And I agreed with Peggy Catlin and Lynn in that respect, that maybe let's not do that yet here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would just-- I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, please, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --make a motion that we drop that first one overall for now. I think it's
problematic.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So do I have a second on that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We don't need to take a vote. It's not a vote item on the agenda. But
we did move forward with some of the elements, but we did not move forward with that one, just
for this reason.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. And then the other thing I would say to you is in the
discussion with Mr. Ballard, as the Chair and looking at those Board packets, they were pretty
big. They were like 300 pages. And people were not being able to read the information.
So we were trying to figure out a way to streamline it so it would be easier on Board members.
But I absolutely agree with all of you if you want to keep it in the packet. I think that that's great.
And maybe we do do an appendix in the back with additional information and then just have the
packet be a streamlined piece. And then that way, it's all in one document.
Does that work for you, Treasurer? Lynn? Does that work for you?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, sorry. Treasurer, I was like, oh, who's that? That works for me. And I
don't want to create more work for you and your team, Barbara. But if there's a way to put the
packet number, especially when we get a 400-page packet, if there's a way to say that the N Line
discussion starts at page 289. There are times where there's something I want to really delve into.
And if I can get to that easily and not search, that would be a big help for me.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we would have to get that information from staff. Because my
staff wouldn't know what that discussion looks like. So we can, maybe at the beginning of each,
maybe at the beginning of the agenda, the first page could be-- and I'm just brainstorming here,
and Paul, you can jump in if you have any thoughts-- that we do like an overview sheet of the
PowerPoint presentation pages that the staff will be addressing. Not to say that there won't be
slides leading up to what that particular slide would be, but we could probably do sort of an
addendum.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know what? I'm not looking to create more work. Even if you said,
on the agenda at the top, even if you told us what page the second committee's agenda starts on
in the packet. So if the first agenda item is the FA&A Committee and then the next committee
starts at page 189. It's just a-- I don't know, does anybody else have this issue? I find myself
[INTERPOSING VOICES].
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. I think you're correct. And Mr. Ballard and I had a
conversation about that. So that's why I started off saying if we have a presentation with a packet
of 40 pages and they're going to cover page 1, 10, 15 and 35, that those be put to the front of the
packet. Because that's where they're going to work from. And then everything behind it will be
additional information that we can look at, so that we're not fumbling through, trying to figure
out packet page numbers. Because I don't know about your packet, but sometimes if I print it and
then I look at it online, there are different numbers for some reason. I don't know. It just might be
me.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I can speak to that. So when we send you the link, the link brings you
to the consolidated agenda. If you'll recall, when we were meeting in person, we would launch a
meeting, then we would close the meeting, then we would open the second meeting. Two
separate agenda items. That's why on the website you see, for instance, Operations agenda, then
you see Finance agenda, and then you see the consolidated agenda, which is everything that
we're discussing that night.
So right now, if you're following the link, you're going to the consolidated agenda. If you go
online to the individual meeting, you're not going to see the same page numbers because it ends
and starts all over again.
So I just wanted to clarify that. That's a little bit different in process since now we're meeting
online.
In terms of-JOHN MCKAY: This is-BARBARA MCMANUS: Go ahead, John.
JOHN MCKAY: I was going to say, I have an alternative. It's not exactly what Director
Guissinger is looking for. But I'm going to share my screen for a moment. I don't know if you
use this as an option. Hang on one second.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm like, all I see is Lynn and Vince and Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's coming.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Don't ruin that.
JOHN MCKAY: I am unable to project right now. Give me a second. You can come back to me,
if you need to.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm at a disadvantage, since I'm only on my phone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We'll describe it.
JOHN MCKAY: I'll have to-- well, so in, if you open up a PowerPoint-- or not a PowerPoint, but
a PDF, rather-- oh, here we go.
OK. So there is a tabbed view that I don't know if everybody knows about. And I just wanted to
point that out for the folks who have to do this on a weekly basis. So if you click on this little
bookmark icon, you've got this outline format that you see the agenda in. And you can you can
expand to that and you can see the individual items.
So you can see the actual recommended actions and then everything underneath that, the
attachments, the border port, any additional materials. And I don't know if you've actually used
this view before. Here's a good example. So here's the CAC appointments in the agenda. And
then when you go to the-- if you expand on that, you actually go to the recommended action and
everything below that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great. That might solve it.
JOHN MCKAY: So yeah, if that gets you to where you need to be, we can make sure that you
have the right version of Adobe first from IT, and then we can walk you through how to get to
that icon right there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Good.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. We did talk, John and I talked about this a little bit, not an
overview but how we could get the Directors to the most important materials. And we also, staff
as well as the Board Office, don't want to pretend for one single second what the Directors
should or would or would want to see.
That perception would be in the view of the public. And I'm not sure that that's a good thing to
portray.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Got it. I do think-- I really do appreciate Mr. Ballard
trying to get the staff to be very concise and in a time limit of what they're going to present to the
Board. And then it would be the discretion of the Board to determine how long they wanted to

keep that dialogue going and what additional information they would need. That's what I'm
hearing from everybody. Is that correct?
Barbara says yes. Vince?
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's what I heard.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Lynn? Yes or no?
LYNN GUISSINGER: [AUDIO OUT]. So what are we doing with this list of things?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pardon?
LYNN GUISSINGER: What are we doing with this list? I mean, Barbara said they're not
implementing some and that we've rejected some. Will we get a tighter list of what changes we're
proposing or working on or something, so I can look at it and see, yes, I agree with all of these
things?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We could certainly do that. Some of these things have already been
implemented on the staff side. And we just felt that with some of the questions in the last
Executive Committee, when this was initially brought up, that we had to have some further
discussion as to how we would choose some of the other elements on the list.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: John, did you-- oh, I'm sorry, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I said, yes, we can update this list to what is already happening and
what we've decided on doing today and we can see how that works. And I know that, Director
Cook, part one of the elements is the smaller committee meetings. And I just want to let you
know that that would be a bylaws change.
But my thought was since we have so much going on this year that maybe what we would do is
just make a single change to the bylaws and choose one committee to be a smaller committee,
sort of as a pilot, and move forward with that for next year. I mean, I think that we have an
opportunity right now to either do all smaller meetings and just do that single change to the
bylaws for all the committee meetings, or use one as a pilot.
So I just wanted to throw that out there. Because I know, Director Cook, long before COVID
ever came, you and I were having these discussions. And I didn't let it get on the back burner.
I've been thinking about it. But we've all been busy doing other things.
And another thing I would like to bring up, and we'll be discussing it a little bit later, but it sort
of dovetails with what we're speaking about now in trying to be more efficient in our meetings.
And that is making some changes to the resolution for the delegation of authority for the General
Manager.

And I know that I have some information I can share later on this, but I just wanted to bring up
that all of the Directors right now see the RFPs and they see all the contracts that are being
brought forward. So I know some of the Directors have felt like they haven't been in the loop on
some of this, but the information is dispersed to the Board and I don't know how better to bring it
to them.
And in looking at the dollar amounts and bringing certain contracts to the Board, I just want, in
the vein of this conversation, when we get to that point to think about the dollar amount that we'll
be discussing. Because bringing under a certain dollar amount of contracts to the Board for
approval-- or over the dollar amount, I apologize-- is going to really add a lot of materials to the
Board packets.
So I just wanted to bring that up. Like I said, we'll talk about it a little bit more a little bit later in
the meeting. But I just thought it was important, since we're trying to get to one scenario here,
and I don't want to get us back to where we were in a different direction down the road.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. McKay, you have your hand up.
JOHN MCKAY: Oh, sorry, that's an old hand. There we go.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh. All right.
Does anybody have anything to add to this piece of this so far?
OK. Let's go to the committee thing next. So to place the RTD staff member's name responsible
for presenting and introducing an item under that, and then setting a time limit for the staff to
follow and print the number of minutes allowed besides the name and limit the presentation to
the PowerPoint to 10 slides, which is what we did last time that worked very, very well.
And then additionally, the Board Office coordinating with the departments to determine the
Operations and Customer Service and Finance Administration and Audit Committee can be
decoupled, due to certain reporting constraints, and the Finance Committee cannot be held earlier
than the second week in the monthly meeting cycle. Any discussion?
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, Paul. I'll just say that I think those first two bullets are
working well. And that's basically staff discipline and making sure that upfront we enforce that.
And I think the discussion that we've had, Barbara and I have had, and you were involved, as
Angie has said, at this time we don't really see an opportunity to decouple those two committee
meetings just because of the timing and the timing of financial documents being available.
And those may have just been a once or twice event where both committees seem to go long. So
our feeling is that we're willing to just kind of let's see how that goes and then we revisit it later.
Barbara, that's where we ended up, is it not?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, it is. And part of that decision was made because right now, the
Communications and FasTracks meeting or every other month. So if we recoupled, we would be
adding a whole additional Tuesday just to separate those two meetings.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Those are long. Those are long meetings.
PAUL BALLARD: [AUDIO OUT] how to do that yet.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. OK. Any discussion?
OK. All right, let's go to the next one then. Board agendas. To move all action items from
Committees to the Board to a Consent Agenda section. And any items not removed from a
Consent Agenda by a Board member can then be voted on by the Board as a whole by a voice
vote.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is null and void.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Good. What about the second part, the Board member
removing the item from the Consent Agenda can ask questions and the Chair can call for a vote
after the questions are answered.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That stays the same as how the bylaws are written, as well as Robert's
rules.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
Then General Notes. The Alternatives to Requested Action section is no longer used. This has
become obsolete and is being removed from on Recommended Action templates. OK?
When making presentations to Committees or Board meetings, constantly reference the page
number you are on to help you follow. And that's going to be something that Mr. Ballard does
with his team in terms of bringing it forward. Correct, Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Right. And some people have already embraced it and some people are
going to need some more reminding. Because I think that's one of the toughest thing, you know,
our packets are so thick that we need to clearly identify what pages we're on. Because I mean, I
get lost. If they don't tell me what page they're on, I frequently don't know.
And so I think that that's just going to take a repetitive reminding of people to-- and you may
hear me start on the Committee meeting saying, please tell us what page you're on. So forgive
me if I start doing that. But after a while, it'll become second nature to folks. I think that's really
important to helping the Board members and staff members keep up to where we are.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
The next one is void. We're not going to do that.

The retiree awards. We have put those on hold because we're meeting remotely and it just doesn't
seem fair. I'd like to keep that as is. Is everybody OK with that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair, just to add to that. So myself and the team have talked about
when and if we get back to having live meetings, what sort of event the Board of Directors might
sponsor for all of those folks that were not recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, good.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And so more to come on that. If by the end of the year it looks like
we're going to be continuing into 2021, we'll revamp what that looks like. And we'll probably
send all of the plaques and the gifts via mail to all the attendees with a letter, letting them know
that in the future if they would want to get recognized that we would notify them of what that
timeframe was. Because we don't want them to think that they're being left out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right. Good. But while you're talking about that, is there any
additional discussion on timeline about when we think we might go back to live meetings?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. I suspect that Mike Meader might talk about that tomorrow. No
one really knows what's going to happen when we start heading into the fall and flu season. And
I would like to say sometime in September, but I haven't been hearing that.
I do know that Heather and staff are working on a work from home policy that would change
things for some folks working at home and bring some people back. But in terms of meeting in a
public forum the way we used to, we're currently under all meetings have to be under 10 folks.
And even if that number starts to increase, we would hate to put ourselves in the position of
excluding the public from joining our meetings because we cannot socially distance.
So we're thinking about all that, and we're ready to make a move in any direction. We are also, as
you know, looking at other software options. We don't know if the CRL contract will be renewed
at the end of the year. Roger's doing all of our meetings now. We're working on a lot of things in
the background. And I don't really have any answers yet. But know that we'll figure it out,
whatever the decision is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
And then the whole thing about the N Line will go under the General Manager's report. So it'll go
to the top of the list rather at the end of the agenda. And it started happening last month, and I
think that went really, really well.
Now if anybody has any questions or comments, just jump in.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. This is Paul. And of course, there won't be a special N Line report after
September 21 because it'll be part of our operation. So we're just getting ready for that. We'll be
talking about it for a long time, but we don't need a separate item for that.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
And then you all heard about-- I'm working with IT to look at alternative platforms. And I don't
know about you guys, but there seems to be more and more popping up every day and they're all
pretty interesting. So keep us in the loop on that. Because we've used Zoom. We've used
Microsoft Teams. The Accountability is using something called Webinar. So I mean, there are a
lot of things that we're going to have to look at.
I think the phone meetings have worked really well for us. I think we've got it down. But it
would be nice to have a visual, I think. So let us know how that's going.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We looked at two different options this week. And we also had a
meeting. There are a couple of municipalities that are using multiple pieces of software to get
everything they need. And I suspect that a hybrid is what we'll wind up with. But we'll keep you
posted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And then the last item on here is going to smaller
committee meetings. And I know that Director, or Second Vice Chair Cook has championed this
for quite some time, but so have other Board members have been really interested in the idea of
doing smaller committees.
And so I think that smaller committees make a lot of sense. Do we want to do it pilot or all of
them? I don't know. I mean, the logistics of doing that, how intense is that, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I mean, I think if we were to open up the bylaws to just that
single item, just because-- and I ask you to bear with me-- I don't mean to be negative. But we
just don't have time to open up the entire bylaws right now. There's so much on the Directors'
plates and so much coming down the road. We have new Board of Directors that we'll start
training in November after the election.
And I think we have some opportunity right now to open that up in the next month, see if we can
get that passed through the consensus of the Board, and move forward with smaller committees
starting the first of the year. That way, we're not we're not training the new Directors on one way
and then switching to another way. As some of you folks know when you first started, it's like
drinking from a fire hose just to get your arms around the meeting schedule, never mind all of
the elements that it takes to do the job.
So I am open to that and I'm willing to work with Director Cook and try to figure out how best to
bring this forward to the Board. And if we make that decision, then usually the committee
members are decided by the Chair of the Board after the first meeting in January. So we would
probably not be able to start this till maybe February or March, when all of those decisions were
made.
But I think that there is some leeway to do it that way if we choose to move forward. And I think
the timing right now is a good opportunity.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Second Vice Chair Cook, your thoughts on that?
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. And recognizing the work that the staff have and so forth, if I'm able to
be involved in that, I'm happy to do a lot of the grunt work tracking down resources and
distributing them to the Board as a whole, but making it streamlined for their action.
So anyway, I like the idea of a pilot, especially if it's Finance. But we can figure out what that is.
And no matter how we decide to proceed, I would like to help, just help with some of the
logistics in figuring out and doing some research with other entities and reviewing the webinars
that are pertinent, et cetera, and then bringing that sort of thing to the Board in discussions we
have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And as you know, I'm more than happy to
participate, if you need my help as well. But thank you for doing that, Second Vice Chair and
Barbara, for looking at it.
I know, all of us know, how intensely busy we're going to be through the end of the year. It is
daunting to look at your calendars at this point. But thank you for considering that.
You know, the last thing I have on my agenda is really to talk a little bit more about the
procurement component that we were talking about earlier and then also doing maybe a special
session on Allied's contract. So if we could talk about those two items, I would be very
appreciative.
So Barbara, do you want to start with the whole piece around doing the change on the
procurement dollar amount, where you're at right there?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, right now the resolution from 2007 doesn't read with a dollar
amount. It just specifies specific areas that the General Manager can make the decision dollar
wise at. And I think that's what needs to be changed. So I pulled that resolution and I've spoken
to Brian Iacono. I've also spoken to Heather, asked her what her thoughts were on dollar
amounts.
I know the Chair brought up the example of Denver Public Schools. But my comment to that
was, Denver Public Schools may be buying vehicles or buses or building a new facility or a
gymnasium. We're talking here about heavy rail. We're talking about huge maintenance efforts.
We're talking about state of good repair. I don't think that the budgets-- they're looking at a little
under a million dollars.
In speaking to Brian Iacono, he didn't feel comfortable bringing anything to the Board that was-well, he thinks that the threshold should be $10 million. He also said that there are some FTA
guidelines that he has been wanting to change, in that resolution from 2007, that are obsolete. So
he would hope to bring that to the Board and speak about that as well, so we can get it done all at
the same time.

He did he did ask me to mention that he would like some-- he personally feels, and of course, he
has [AUDIO OUT] I had this discussion with him last week, but more in detail this morning. So
we would have to speak to Paul about this, but what would be exempt from that would be the
lock in fuel, because they didn't feel that they could bring that forward to the Board since it's so
volatile. When they get to the price where they want, they need to lock it. They don't have the
time.
And that's one example of some of the things that they might want to exempt. So we could have
Brian speak in Other Matters at the Board meeting, if you'd like. Or we could wait till next
month and he could bring it forward in a different manner.
But I do think it's important. You know, a lot of the Board members are speaking about this and
it's been on my radar. So I wanted to bring it up and make sure that the Board understands how
many contracts there are between $5 million and $10 million and $10 million and up, So that
they can make the best decision on what sort of volume of contracts they want to see brought
forward to the Board meetings going forward.
Melanie, did you have anything to add to that overview? Because I know you and John have
been having discussions, but I haven't been part of it because I've been in another direction.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, that's OK. Sure. If I may, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: So I didn't realize we were going to talk about this today. I was meaning
to send you an email about it, Angie. But I've also been talking with Brian. Because I think
before you all make any change to the delegation, that you should have a little bit of context of
kind of how that delegation has been used in the past.
So I worked with Brian over the last couple weeks. He pulled some data and just pulled any
purchases over $1 million over the last 10 years. So he's put together kind of an overview. But
what I will say to you is that the short answer is that the Allied contract we've all been talking
about really is an outlier as far as the dollar amount that's involved.
He did put together a couple different categories, and I'm happy to send this out, so whether we
decide to just send it out via email or present it in Other Matters, as Barbara was suggesting. But
you should understand the vast majority of what this particular delegation has been used for in
the past are for things like very general operating computer hardware and software.
So not special software. Things like our overall agency-wide Microsoft agreement that we have.
So that would be software. Bus operation, parts, fuel, oil, tires, printing services and copier
leases. So those tend to be a little bit higher dollar amounts when we renew the leases on the
copier machines. Light rail parts. And then the last category would be security services and
maintenance.

So those really are, I mean, I guess I just would caution you, if those are the things that you want
to start seeing, Brian said that back in 2007, when this resolution and delegation were adopted, it
was because the Board said, we don't want to see all these things, fuel and tire purchases and
things that are sort of the day-to-day operational expenses.
We did also look back at the security contracts. And those were historically treated under this
provision. So there was a company called G4S Inc previously, and then Allied Barton was the
next contractor, and then Allied Universal. So it is true that historically these security services
were treated under this provision. It wasn't just this most recent contract.
The dollar amount, I guess, is the outlier, for the most recent contract that's above and beyond.
But I just wanted you to have that context. Because it's the agreement that really is putting all the
light on this was really the outlier. And I don't know that it even makes any sense to change these
or put in dollar limitations. Because some of these, the fuel purchases, for example, $20 million,
I don't know that the Board necessarily feels they want to see it.
The other piece about that 2007 resolution is that it does require specifically that the General
Manager compile a monthly report that shows a summary of all of the contracts that are being
approved, including under this specific delegation that doesn't have the dollar limitation.
So you should still be getting those. Paul signs off on those. I saw an example of it. He's still
sending those every single month. So you're still seeing those. And you would have seen, for
example, in that report the Allied contract.
I guess the question is whether you all want to approve these things or you just want certain
amounts to be highlighted in advance or something like that. But you just might want to think
about that context before you make a change to that delegation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: First of all, let me just say thank you for doing this deep dive.
Two things come to mind. One is I don't think people are reading those reports. Two, I think that
having it under Other Matters, so we could have this conversation with the whole Board, makes
sense, in terms of relaying information and asking questions and then making a decision
together.
You know, you're right, the outlier is this security contract that has caused a lot of angst. But I
think that I don't want to be approving oil prices, like if we're buying $20 million worth of oil
and stuff. But I do think that if we could make-- this is a new Board from 2007. If we just, under
Other Matters, show a list of what it is that they buy, how often do they buy it, I think it's just a
good discussion point to have with the entire Board.
What do you guys think? Vince?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I agree. I don't want to be involved in operational issues, even if they
are sometimes expensive. I know when I was on Broomfield City Council, we approved
everything over and above $50,000.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Wow.
MELANIE SNYDER: I think if we did that at RTD, we'd be pretty busy. So I'm not suggesting
anything like that. But I think that the security contract was an issue-- well, it's become an issue,
a bigger issue than it is. But even at the time-- and I've said this before-- there are some things
that tend to have a little bleed over between operations and policy and what our policy thoughts
are on things.
So yeah, I think getting an Other Matter update on where we're at, what we do, how we do it
would be helpful to everybody. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin, I know you're going to have
to leave. Do you want to comment on that?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Yes. I agree with Vince. And I'm actually pleased to hear the
update from Melanie. And the fact that the Allied Security contract was an anomaly reassures
me.
So I actually do read those contracts in the report and I appreciate having that information. So
thank you. And yes, I am going to have to get off here pretty quick.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you.
Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you. And I support your idea of bringing the discussion to the
Board. I think members have some pretty strong thoughts about it too.
So a couple of things. One, my concern is how, to the extent it was an outlier and it was a matter
of interpretation, I'd like to make sure we clarify the delegation authority so that the outliers don't
occur, or are less likely to occur. Because it was $67 million versus the amounts that are limited,
that the other items are limited to was a pretty striking thing. And I just, I feel like we should be
considering changes to this ordinance so that it's clear what comes to us, or at least more clear
than it is.
For example, there's an item under that same ordinance that requires or allows the GM to
approve and execute negotiated requests for proposals, purchase orders and contracts which do
not exceed $500,000. So you could read that to mean that any RFP that's negotiated over the
amount of $500,000 is supposed to come to the Board.
And so I'm worried if we leave it as it is and there's a matter of interpretation if we aren't
vulnerable to a challenge or something on that basis. So I think just, get Melanie's thoughts about
whether or not it makes sense to clarify what does come to us in order to prevent another 67 or
similar item from just being executed, especially when it's on an item like security, where there
had been concerns. So anyway, those are my thoughts.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'd actually be interested to hear Melanie's response on that. Because I
thought the same thing when I read the RFP provision, how did they sign a $67 million security
contract if we put out an RFP?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you.
So just to be clear, under the delegation, this one for routine operational goods and services, so
that, although there's no amount in there, there's no dollar amount that's a limit, those all still go
through our normal process. So there is still the RFP process. We're still following all the same
procurement procedures that we normally would. It's not like those are just separate agreements
that the GM is signing off on without going through that process.
So there's going to be plenty of things that went through a formal bid, just like the Allied contract
did, that are going to be well over $1 million. So the category of things that I listed out to you
earlier, those were only purchases above $1 million. So just for that context.
And then the other piece of it with the Allied agreement, when I say it was an outlier, I guess it's
an outlier to me in the sense of the dollar amount, but it wasn't an outlier in the sense that those
were the types of services that were historically, that that delegation typically covered. So
security services like that, the TSO contracts, and then any of the camera systems and
maintenance equipment, that's always been run through and considered a routine operational
purchase.
I guess the dollar amount-- just one other clarification, because I know there have been some
questions around this-- the $67.7 million amount that we've referred to is the contractual not to
exceed amount. But my understanding from Brian is that based on whatever the budget is,
whatever we have budgeted, we actually have only have, I think, $44 million budgeted against
that agreement.
So although the contract amount is higher, it's not actually been budgeted. That's not the actual
amount. So I think some of you were coming with that number of around $40 million, and that's
where that's coming from, just for reference.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And not get distracted from the question at hand, but when are we going
to be looking at that Allied Security contract and how it was signed and what we do moving
forward and all of that? It grew a lot, as I recall. And I haven't seen all the documents. But it
seems like the previous one was $16 million, and then the next one was 67.
And do we have a time we've set to look at that?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what, though, Treasurer Guissinger, I think it was
$16 million a year for three years and went to like $27 million a year or something. And that was
all done before FasTracks was built out. So that was the difference in the cost. That was my
understanding. Is that correct, Barbara?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. It's my understanding that as we grew the system, the contract
grew as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. That's what I think happened. General Counsel-SHELLEY COOK: [INTERPOSING VOICES] once-- if I could just interject right there. There
was an internal audit report that indicated that the annual amount, or that the contract amount for
the three years prior to 20-- I think it was from 2013 to 2016, that that total amount was the 15,
or a little bit under 15, once it had been amended.
So I don't think they were quoting an annual amount there. But I could be wrong. Just, it seemed
to indicate from the internal audit report that I ran across on our website that it was actually the
total contract cost.
So Lynn's question is a really good one. What happened between 2013 and 2016? I couldn't find
any record of that. And what were the costs attributable to for that one? Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And I think that's why we do need to have-- you can
see with the four of us, there's all of these questions. And we have 11 other Board members
asking more, if not the same, question. It'd be great just to have a meeting where we could sit
down and have these questions answered, and then if there are additional ones to address them,
just so we're all on the same page on how we move forward.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Paul, this is Barbara McManus. Maybe you can discuss this with
your staff and figure out the best timing of bringing this forward, whether or not we can get the
information that's needed in time for next Tuesday or whether we want to bring it forward in the
meeting cycle next month.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, Madam Chair. This is Paul. A couple of thoughts.
Number one, we can certainly put together, because I think, Barbara, you've done a great deal of
the work already in organizing all of the reports showing how the current contract was renewed
or awarded. And we can certainly start doing some research. And I think next month is a much
better timetable, because we're not going to have something ready for next week.
But I think there's one other area that I do want to caution everyone. And that is, this discussion
is absolutely within the purview of the Board. And I think it's a good discussion. I would caution
you to be very careful, though, that if the news media or other members of the Board present this
as we're considering reducing the authority of the General Manager in the middle of our
recruiting process, it could have a negative impact on the three folks that we're going to be
talking to.

You know, they're working hard to do their presentations and get ready for the second round of
interviews. And if they think that we're changing the ground rules in the middle of the process, I
think that could work against us. So I would be very cautious about not-- about we should wait,
and any policy or bylaws changes or whatever that you want to consider should be done with the
new General Manager at the table.
And I would be very careful about presenting any information that could make these candidates
think we're changing the rules of the game in the middle. So I would just ask you to be very
careful of that.
But as far as the mechanics of the history of this contract, absolutely we can put that together.
And I'm confident what you'll find is that when the commuter rail lines came online, that doubled
the contract, because we doubled the work, in rough estimate. But we can absolutely put that all
together and share that with the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. And I do take your caution to heart.
And one of the reasons why we really wanted to start this discussion, and I think the discussion
just can be about the contract and how it was done over the last couple of times, is that in light of
the new Accountability Committee that's in place and all of the other issues around RTD and not
being transparent, this is just a good conversation for us to have currently.
I really am OK with tabling it for a couple of months till the new General Manager comes in to
help set the stage for this so that we start together on the same page. What do you think,
Treasurer Guissinger? Only because I can see you at the top [AUDIO OUT].
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm trying to think through what falls under which category in terms of
not restricting the General Manager versus moving forward on the security issues. Because we
all indicated the other night, most of us indicated that while we weren't supporting the proposal
at hand, that we wanted to look at the Allied Security contract and consider our security issues
and the second person on the train and all of those.
And I'd like not to postpone that discussion too long. Because there's a lot of interest. It's an
important discussion. And so I would like to see us move that forward. And maybe the good
short-term thing is to say any contracts dealing with security don't fall under that routine
maintenance for now. I mean, routine procurement for now. And I assume we're not signing a lot
of contracts dealing with security. But I'm not trying to-- I'm just trying to say, let's move this
forward before too long. And I'm not trying to mess with the General Manager's authority
particularly, but just to stay on top of this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: [AUDIO OUT] this. This is Barbara McManus. So Paul thinks that
we should move this forward next month and with caution. But I know that this is something
that's churning with some of the Directors, as well as some of our constituents. So perhaps we
can find, we can work with you and put a statement in the Chair's report letting everybody know

that we're working on this and we're moving forward to do a review, or whatever language we
come up with, just to put out there that this is on our radar and we are moving it forward.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Are we good with that, Buzek? Secretary? OK. Melanie?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: So I just wanted to clarify to make sure we're all on the same page.
Because to me, there are two separate issues. One is sort of the delegation and the scope and sort
of the historical use of that. And I do think that there's some value in getting that information that
Brian has put together before the Board members, just so that you see it. And that will, I think,
help allay some concerns that there's not 15 contracts in the queue that are over $50 million or
that there's other contracts like the Allied agreement out there. I think that's helpful information
to get.
To me, the second area is more what RTD is going to be doing with respect to security and all
those issues. And the Allied contract is just one piece of that. So I think it's better to not keep
trying to jumble those together. Maybe give the information about the delegation, and then
whatever the Board decides to do in the next month or two, whether you end up convening a
committee or whatever that is with respect to the security services, I think you just deal with that
sort of separately.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, got it. Secretary Buzek, any comment.
VINCE BUZEK: No, I think that's good. I think there are definitely two separate issues, as
Melanie has said. The General Manager procurement authority, it'd be good to have some of that
info. But any deep diving discussion I think we ought to hold off on. And in terms of the security
issues and so forth, I agree with what Treasurer Guissinger is talking about. And I think Barbara
McManus's idea would be a good one. Because I think staff's going to need time to put details
and info together for all of us.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, I agree. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Then that's what we'll do is, Barbara, if you'll work with us
to put together a statement.
I'm wondering-- and then, if we could put together under Other Matters or whatever, to have Mr.
Iacono and do just an overview of the procurement clause. I think that that would be great.
Wow. These meetings are just getting so fun. Is there anything-- so I don't have anything else.
Does anybody have anything else to bring forward to the Executive Committee?
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul. I would like to bring something up after the other
Board members speak.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
Executive Committee, anything under Other Matters? New Business? Old Business? Jokes,
anything?
OK. Mr. Ballard, the floor is yours.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you, ma'am. I want to talk about potential North Line opening
ceremonies. Pauletta Tonilas is on the phone. I asked her to participate.
And just very briefly, as we've conveyed to you, we are working towards some socially
distanced, small ceremony or ceremonies in addition to the news media train and the VIP train.
And we wanted to get a sense from the Executive Committee if we should continue on that basis.
Because I know, Angie, you and I have talked. And you conveyed to me that there's some
concern in the community that we should be doing any public events and should they go all
virtual. So Pauletta has talked to me. And she said, we're at, we've got to make a decision one
way or the other. September 21 is going to be here very, very quickly.
And so I wanted to get some feedback from the Executive Committee, should we continue down
the path of limited socially distanced activities or should we shift to all virtual?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I did contact both Secretary Buzek and Director Whitmore
to talk about that very issue about I would support anything that they want to do. It's the three of
us, it's in our districts. It's in my district and Secretary Buzek and Director Whitmore's district.
I do have a little bit of a concern in terms of where we are at currently with this COVID-19 issue
and the concern that there could be a resurgence in September with the flu season. And would it
be inappropriate for us to have a party, even though it'll be socially distanced and stuff, and in
light of our midterm financial issues we shouldn't be seen having any kind of an event?
But I am open to listening to anybody. And I will, you know, whatever Director Buzek and
Whitmore would like to do, I would support. So Vince, what do you think?
VINCE BUZEK: Well, after you brought this up to me, Madam Chair, I reached out to my
stakeholders, mayors, mayor pro tems, council members in Thornton, Westminster, Northglenn,
Federal Heights, all along the area. And we're already at a point where we're not getting a lot of
stuff, right? The public art is pretty limited on the N Line and all that.
The overall feeling is that they would still like to do some kind of celebration, socially distanced,
in-person, and a bigger thing at the end of the line. Maybe we do it by invitation only, some way
that we can manage the number of people that are there. But I think 175 people is the number
that we can have. And it's a huge parking lot at East Lake. And I think people up here would not
be happy if this was done virtually.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Done. I'm fine. No, I'm fine with it. I just think that we needed
to have that conversation so that we've done our due diligence in it. But if that's the feeling, then
I would support that. What do you think-PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, this is Pauletta. I don't know, I hope you guys can hear me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PAULETTA TONILAS: So yes, I've heard what you guys say. I think we all want to do
something in person if at all possible. The challenge is how, how many. While 175 was the initial
amount, our safety and security folks and other health officials have been recommending much
fewer than that to do at any kind of a public event. What we have been looking at is if there is a
way to do it with no more than 50 as we do the progressive train ride from Union Station and still
do that, stopping off and doing the local jurisdiction ribbon cutting, have those people hop on, go
to the next, and so on and so forth, ending at 124th, where we would do the grand opening.
We could do that with no more than 50 people and livestream it for everyone else. There are
some concerns about doing it with any more than 50. So yes, this is really helpful for us to hear.
It's just what we don't want to have happen is for RTD to essentially be in another tough spot
where everyone else has been moving things virtually and we're still doing something that some
folks may not think are in the best interests of safety and health.
But what I'm hearing is that we still move forward with some type of a smaller scale, invite-only
event, while it then be available by way of virtual livestream for everyone else. And we still are
planning to do the VIP train ride and the media train ride on Thursday, September 17 as a
precursor to the grand opening, as what we've done before.
So that is what I'm hearing and want to make sure that that is good for the Board.
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. You got 15 Board members and a plus one, there's 30 people right there
if they all decide to show up. 50 is not going to cut it. So we've got to think of creative ways to
figure out how we can increase that number and safely do it. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: May I ask a question?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Are we not limited by the state's-- I don't know exactly what we're
planning, but aren't we limited to 10 people at some sort of event?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, it's actually, I mean most events are kind of capping things at
about 50. Mike Meader, who I actually am going to be having a conversation with him later
today, but Mike is kind of our guidepost in a lot of this to make sure that we're respecting the
state orders and what would be then local orders that typically follow suit.
So I'll tell you what we can do. Paul and I will take what we've heard and we will be discussing
this with other members of the senior leadership and fine tune a plan back to the Board, but
doing as much as we can to have ample audience for a live, in person, onsite event.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pauletta, I was wondering when Director Buzek was talking,
now traditionally I don't see a whole lot of Board members going to these events in the past. I
mean, I just haven't. But I'm wondering if we could add one more train event just for Board
members and their plus ones. And then the Board members who actually are going to be cutting
ribbons would go on the day of the actual event. So that if the Board wants to take a pre ride,
they could do it as a group. Just as a suggestion to throw around.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Sure. And Madam Chair, the intent of our VIP train ride is we always
invite the full Board and the mayors and the chair of the Adams County Commission, in this
situation, and then a handful of others to join us on the VIP train ride. And all of those dignitaries
being the very first to get an official train ride. That was planned for Thursday, September 17.
Then the actual day of, if we need to worry about numbers, what we could do is keep it to the
Board members of the corridor and, of course, those elected officials that I've talked about, and
then a handful of other stakeholders or what have you. That's one way that we can do that. And
so then all 15 Board members wouldn't necessarily be at the grand opening day. So that's another
way we can do it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Well, lots of thought. Yes, Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: I like your idea about doing a separate train for our Board members, and let
me work on that. I think that's a great idea.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
Pauletta, thank you so much. And I so appreciate all the work your team is doing during COVID
in trying to open up this line. It's got to be just logistically a nightmare. So thank you, and let us
know how we can help.
Ms. McManus.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Is there anybody else that wants to go before me? I thought Shelley
Cook had her hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh. I didn't see a hand. Shelley?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Just on this item, coming off of the G line and the excitement about
the G line, I wanted to ask, or just make sure we're thinking about how we'll manage public
interest in riding for those first few weeks, just to make sure that we've got something in place
for social distancing and in lines and so forth.
So I just know that even with COVID, given all the excitement that is associated with this
opening and comparing it to what it was like on the G Line, we'll see pretty good numbers of
people, I expect, wanting to ride, and just making sure we have a plan in place for that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah, I'm not sure how long the free rides were on the-- I don't know how
long the free rides were on the G Line. But I know even in pre-COVID times, I've always
encouraged a longer free ride period so that people will in fact spread out. As it stands now,
we're proposing seven days of no fare collection on the North Line as an attempt to spread
people up. As of right now, of course, we allow 30 people per car. There'll be-- these are two-car
trains, so we'll be able to let you know legitimately carry 60 people socially distanced.
But if seven days is not enough, we might need to look at expanding that. We'll be in a position
to support the rail team, the rail operators in helping to keep the ridership close to the social
distancing. So I think we have the ability to manage that. And unless anybody thinks seven days
is not going to be enough, I think we have adequate plans and we will implement adequate plans.
So if anybody has any thoughts on that particular aspect, that would be helpful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Sorry. Yeah, I'm glad that they're working on it. I was just thinking
about the people crowding the train platform, and how the TSOs do or don't spread people
around. I just was wondering if, and it sounds like we are talking about that. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you.
All right. Anyone else? OK. Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So just a couple of quick updates. Heather McKillop has asked me if
we could add a study session on October 13 to give a full picture of the budget. We're going to

be seeing components of it as we're moving through time now. Not for approval, just a study
session to talk about the budget, where she is and how she has balanced it at that point in time.
That would have been a no meeting day because of the APTA, but APTA was canceled. And
then we chose that date because it was the latest date that she could do it in the budget process,
because she has to post, based on the RTD Act, by the 15th, which is two days later. So I just
wanted to give you a heads up that we'll be adding that to the calendar and sending that out to the
Directors.
Also, in terms of the General Manager's executive search, we received only one comment on the
survey. So I am moving forward with Pauletta to get that survey translated into Spanish and get
that ready to move forward to be posted next Wednesday.
And we'll be pushing that survey out next Wednesday in two separate groups. It'll be the same
survey. But because we want to capture the feeling of the stakeholders, as opposed to the public,
a little bit separately and not as a whole, we'll be sending them out individually.
And then my meeting this morning with Gregg Moser, he is just finishing up reference checks.
He's going to be putting together a document outlining all of those reference checks. And 5:00
this Sunday, he's going to be posting those reference checks out on HOGO for the Directors to
review.
He had a number of folks that were willing to give their input, with the caveat that these not be
released to the public. So we thought the best way to go was the same way as the resumes. And
so if that seems to work for this group, then we'll move forward in that manner.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'm good with it. Secretary Buzek? Good.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Treasurer Guissinger? Second Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am too. So we're good to go.
BARBARA MCMANUS: All right. That's all for me. Thanks so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just one request for Pauletta and Barbara, can we add the Accountability
Committee members to the stakeholders link, when they get the poll, please?
BARBARA MCMANUS: The whole group or just the co-chairs?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'd probably put all 15-- all 11 of them. Is that a problem?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. I just wanted to clarify.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Yeah.
PAULETTA TONILAS: And actually-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's 9. Because it's you and Troy, too.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think we make 13.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, you did, 13.
PAULETTA TONILAS: That's correct. This is Pauletta. It is 11. And I will say, Director
Guissinger, as a follow up to our discussion earlier, I did receive a list of all the Accountability
Committee members from DRCOG for our other communications that we send out for the
agency we're going to add them to. So we can go ahead. I'll share it with Barbara and Gregg so
they can add them to the stakeholder link.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Pauletta, and thank you, Barbara. That's great.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. General Counsel.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. So I just thought I would raise-- it sounds like you're planning
to do a survey and compiling those survey results from the public. I did get a voice message from
Director Menten a little while ago asking whether the survey results would be public records and
whether we would treat them as such if somebody asked those to be turned over.
And so I just wanted to flag that issue, if that's what you-- I think there is a good argument that
those would be public records. But the one thing that I do think you need to highlight, I mean, we
should talk about if you want to protect those and not disclose them, we should-- I can look into
additional bases to do that.
But if you're leaning toward disclosing those, if asked, I do think you need to put that out on the
page and on the survey to say that those will be shared, that they will be treated as public
records. Because there is an exemption in the definition of public records in the open records act
that deals with constituent communications. And so it's possible that a constituent might want to
share some information with you all as elected officials that they wouldn't necessarily want to be
treated as a public record.
So I'm happy to talk those details through with you, but I just wanted to flag that. But that's the
kind of thing that should be posted along when the survey's posted so that people are on notice of
that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Melanie, are you talking about the overview document that
[INTERPOSING VOICES] will get?

MELANIE SNYDER: No, I was talking about Director Menten left me a message about a survey
that you all had talked about potentially sending out to get constituent feedback on the different
candidates.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, so I don't think Pauletta is on the line any longer. Maybe she is.
Are you on the line, Pauletta?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, I am on the line right now.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Do you want to speak to the process of review and what the end result
will look like?
PAULETTA TONILAS: OK, sure. So the survey that will go public will be asking those who
want to participate to, each of the finalists from 1 to 10 on how and what they've learned about
the finalists, how well they think that person should be-- I can't remember how it's worded this
very second-- but basically how they think that person is best suited to be RTD's new CEO. Then
right under that is an open comment field where people can then add comments that, is there
anything additional you would like to add about this particular finalist. So that's set up that way
for each of the three.
And then on the morning of August 24, then we will go ahead and compile those results, which
should be fairly quick, given the way we've set it up, so that there won't have to be a lot of
synthesizing of open comments, because they'll be already separated by finalist, so that we can
get those to the Board members as quickly as possible on the Monday the 24th before your
meeting on Tuesday evening.
Now we did not make the results of the interim CEO survey public. Those were shared with
Board members only.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's true.
PAULETTA TONILAS: So in alignment with what Melanie was just saying, I think that she will
look into what parameters we can work within.
I will say that because of some of what people will put in those open comment fields, that some
of it will be insensitive. And yet it's an open forum. It's an open process. And I think we all
understand that. So I just-- it would be sending to the Board members on Monday the 24th. But
then if there was some reason we felt it had to be public, I would say that that should not be
made public until after Board members make their decision, if that's what you choose.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pauletta, are we asking for these survey takers to put their names
on them?
PAULETTA TONILAS: No, we don't ask for any names. All we ask is typically age or
whatever. But actually, I don't even know that we ask that on this particular survey.

BARBARA MCMANUS: I didn't see it, Pauletta.
PAULETTA TONILAS: We're not asking any demographic information on this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. OK, cool. All right.
Well, then we'll wait to hear from you, General Counsel. But please-MELANIE SNYDER: OK. So I'm sorry, I have to drop off for another call. But why don't I plan
to get in touch with Barbara and with Pauletta and we can go through these details and get a
[INTERPOSING VOICES?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That would be great. Thank you.
Is there any other matter to come before the Executive Committee? OK, hearing none, we are
adjourned at 1:06. Thank you, everybody.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Bye-bye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.

