2021-02-02
CGR Committee Meetings
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, is that three minutes? Is everybody back? Are we ready to go?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, ma'am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. The-- excuse me-- the Communications and Government Relations
Committee is now called to order. We are convened as of 6:26 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone
connected to this call to must your phones and set your ringers to silent. My name is Lynn Guissinger, I'm
chairing this committee.
Under the current circumstances, the meetings are held remotely, and are held by Zoom. If you would like
to view the unofficial minutes of the meeting and the recording, you can go to RTD-Denver.com, and
scroll to the bottom of the page under Board of Directors.
I think, in terms of being acknowledged tonight, we have no recommended actions. So we have several
presentations. If you would like to be acknowledged to speak, please use your raise your hand function,
or go to your participants and then use that. And if those don't work, you can just interrupt me.
And so we will start with our-- I'm just looking, we've done a lot of this. I don't think-- it says roll call, I don't
think we need to do roll call, everybody's here, I assume. Unless somebody tells me differently, we'll
move on.
Our first matter tonight-- other matters, since we have no recommended actions-- is the report from the
Accountability Committee. And we have the two Accountability Committee co-chairs, Crystal Murillo and
Elise Jones here with us tonight. I'll do a quick introduction.
Crystal Murillo is a city council member in Aurora, and she also works as a diversity program coordinator
at the University of Denver. I googled Crystal recently, and was very impressed. She's the daughter of
Mexican immigrants, and the first in her family to graduate from college. And she's been a significant
voice on both the Aurora city council and on the Accountability Committee for equity and affordable
housing, affordable transit.
Elise Jones is newly reemployed after eight years of really excellent service to Boulder County. Elise was
term limited last week, a couple of weeks ago, and last week became Executive Director at the Southwest
Energy Efficiency project. Before that time, Elise had been Executive Director at Environment Colorado.
And has done a lot to-- I'm getting notes of people having-- it looks like people are having some trouble
getting on here.
I think-- let me just make sure that everybody's-- no, I think we're OK.
I'll just say a word or two. I think that getting an Accountability Committee appointed was a bit daunting for
many of us here at RTD. And it's just a fact that RTD had lost the trust of the governor and many in the
legislature, and that was the reason that it was appointed.
But having sat through many meetings now, I think there's seven a month, I really believe that this group
is working with and for RTD at this point. It took a little while for them to sort of get grounded and kind of
get into the meat of the issues. And I think that it's helped a lot that our new General Manager, Debra
Johnson, is meeting with the committee, as well, and attending the meetings. She has a lot of knowledge,
and I think is able to really contribute to the recommendations that they're coming up with.

They have come up with some recommendations for a bill, which we've talked about several times, and
they'll be talking about those more. The process-- tonight we're not going to be-- the bill is still in drafting,
it's still being worked on. So we're not going to be talking about specific language of the bill, but they'll be
talking about the four main substantive provisions that are the subject of that bill.
And then, the bill is expected to be introduced by representative Gray, co-sponsored by Senator Witter.
And it'll be introduced February 16th. I believe what we will do is have a special Board meeting on the
night of February 23rd, that which I hope that we will vote as a Board to support the bill. They'll be
explaining the provisions are intended to provide, more flexibility for RTD.
So without more, I will turn that over to Elise and Crystal.
CRYSTAL MURILLO: Hi, Lynn, and thank you so much for that introduction. I haven't googled myself
lately, so I don't know-- when you said that, I wasn't exactly sure what you would say next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You should do it.
[LAUGHTER]
CRYSTAL MURILLO: But again, thank you to the Board, and for everyone for allowing us to spend some
time with you. As Lynn said, my name is Crystal Murillo. I'm a city council member that represents ward
one for district's purposes-- that is 6th Avenue North, so I have both Adams and Arapahoe County, and it
includes the Anschutz medical campus, Downey marketplace, in the Lowry redevelopment area, the
Aurora portion of it, anyway.
So I'm really excited to be here. So many intersections in our conversations, and just listening to the first
part of the conversation.
And when my co-chair-- we'll kind of be presenting on and off-- so when she transitions to her set of
slides, I'll give her an opportunity to introduce herself then, once again.
If you could go to the next slide, yes.
So our committee is made up of an intersection-- appointment, of course, both by the governor and the
RTD chairs. And it's a broad intersection of folks who are subject matter experts, as well as elected
officials throughout the spectrum-- county commissioners, city council members, mayors, folks who have
a vested interest in the success of RTD.
And of course, we have two ex officio members from the RTD Board who join us at all of our meetings,
which I think has been really helpful. Quite frankly, it was an interesting perspective to hear you say that it
was a daunting exercise to have that committee appointed upon you. So I guess I hadn't really
considered that, that perspective.
But I do hope that through our work thus far, and moving forward, we've demonstrated that we certainly
are independent, but aren't interested in creating recommendations that aren't useful, and that aren't
implementable. So we have invited the GM, or other Board members of the community members to really
be part of this process, because again, we're not doing the community any good if we're not really coming
up with feasible recommendations.
On the next slide-- and this is our mission. We want to be intersectional with whom we're providing
service to. We understand that we serve more than just one city, one county. And that our focus is on
mobility.
Next slide. Here are some, I guess, tangible goals. And really, that is our charge, is to come up with
tangible recommendations. So that regardless of your income abilities, accessibility, that this is a system
that's accessible for you.

Let's see-- if you just read a little bit further, it just highlights the collaboration that we've gone through,
and the premise of our conversations. And if you toggle onto the-- yes, next slide-- I will hand it over to my
co-chair.
ELISE JONES: So let me start by saying thanks to Director Guissinger for having us, and that kind of
introduction. It's really great to get a chance to talk to the RTD Board. I really have enjoyed the work with
my fellow co-chair.
As Lynn mentioned, until recently, I was a Boulder County commissioner, and very active in the
Northwest Mayors and Commissioners Coalition, working on RTD and other transportation issues. So
RTD is a really, really important partner in my neck of the woods, and to the entire metro area. So really
happy to get to be a part of this work.
And I really appreciated having direct involvement from both Lynn and Troy, and General Manager
Johnson. It's really been beneficial to have that collaboration as a part of the committee's dialogue.
So turning back to the presentation, the committee was given a pretty broad scope to look at ways to
improve the operations of RTD. But within that broad scope, there were a couple of directives that were a
little more specific. And that was really doing a deep dive in financials, including looking at the long-term
financial stability of RTD, including the debt load.
Looking at the RTD structure of both the Board and the service area, and is that the right size? Is it put
together the best way? That kind of thing. Looking at short and long term priorities.
And then a really big focus on how to improve service throughout the district, but certainly for transitreliant populations-- folks with disabilities-- with an eye towards really expanding ridership.
And I think it's important to recognize that this committee was created pre-COVID-- recognizing that there
were some long term foundational issues that RTD was struggling with that needed to be looked at with
the eye towards making RTD the best transit agency possible. And then COVID struck and layered on a
whole new set of financial and operational challenges.
So this committee is looking, certainly, at the short term. But really, even more at the long term structural
issues with RTD to try and provide some recommendations. Next slide.
So our timeline-- we are basically given a life span of a year. We started up last July. Took a little while,
as Lynn alluded to, to get ourselves organized, decide on leadership, set up some subcommittees, and
really start doing some deep research. We had the option of submitting a preliminary interim report at the
end of the year, which we did, and we'll talk about in a minute. And then our big final report will be due
next summer.
And the way it's set up is we have absolutely no power whatsoever over RTD, except that we have been
tasked with giving recommendations. And you all are directed and have agreed to taking a serious look at
those recommendations and responding within 45 days if you decide not to adopt our recommendation.
So it really is a good set-up for us to have some collaboration and dialogue, and hopefully some
resolution on some of the recommendations that we come up with.
So, next slide. The legislature did give about $200,000 for this effort, that has paid for DRCOG to help
staff the committee, and they've done an excellent job. And I really appreciate that. And to pay for a
consultant.
And we looked at several firms, and ended up choosing North Highland. And they've been helping us do
research on various areas, including RTD's expenditure of the first tranche of Cares Act funding, and
that's been really, really helpful.

With that, let me turn it back to Crystal.
CRYSTAL MURILLO: Thanks, Elise. And before I dive into the meat of the subcommittee work, I just also
wanted to share that in that long period of getting us set up, we committed to an equity lens in this
process. And so, the goal is that we are here to provide recommendations, working collaboratively so that
they are in fact feasible and meaningful with important stakeholders.
But that this lens, though we are not in charge of the implementation of any of these recommendations,
that the public is aware of the potential impact, and future legislators-- intent matters, but so does impact.
So that equity lens is something we've committed to throughout the entire report.
We took advantage of that initial option and focused on legislative recommendations. So we are-- I don't
believe we finalized that equity lens, but we have gone through those recommendations to provide
feedback on who's impacted the most, what are some unintended consequences? Just so that, as a
guide, for whomever takes this work on after we're done with it.
So just wanted to flag that. That was really important for us to incorporate.
So yeah, we boiled it down to three subcommittees. And if you'll go to the next slide, I will talk about our
governance subcommittee.
So high level, what are some structures giving us the leeway to explore what other communities do, how
they implement their RTD and transit agencies. What are the structure and size of their boards, their
service areas? How do they partner with different organizations?
So meat of the governance subcommittee, if you'll go to the next slide, I will take a little bit more about our
finance subcommittee. And I think this is really the crux of a lot of the conversations is the financial
transparency. How do we address a sustainable model? This was pre-COVID, and certainly, now that we
have COVID presenting some other challenges.
And it is integral to the conversations we're having. And mind you, the conversations actually crossed
over different subcommittees. So we try to be aware and cognizant of where one conversation really is
not just a question of finance, but it could also relate to conversations around operations and governance,
to be, again, efficient, effective, and intersectional.
We mentioned here a review of the RTD statutes that govern RTD's work, and how can we offer
alternative ideas, et cetera. If you go to the next slide.
And last but not least, our operations subcommittee-- we spent a significant amount of time on the Fair
Pass programs. Again, it's really important that we explore best practices. How are we performing
compared to other transit agencies to achieve similar outcomes? How do we focus on transit-reliant
populations.
And perhaps one of the core ideals in this conversation is, how do we talk about community based transit
service, planning and operations? Right? RTD is regional by nature. How do we implement a process that
really gets at that regional collaboration, as well.
And I believe this is where I turn it back to my co-chair, Elise.
ELISE JONES: Thanks, Crystal. So as I indicated, when the committee was set up there was an option to
submit a preliminary report at the end of the year. Liberal interpretation of end of the year was first part of
January. And we said, yes, we needed to-- in part, to let the world and RTD and others know about the
work that we've been doing. But perhaps most importantly, because we had done that legislative review
that Crystal alluded to, we wanted to give those recommendations to the legislature in time for them to
take action during the legislative session. Next slide.

And I believe you all got a copy of the interim report in your packet. So certainly let us know if you didn't.
So just what it includes-- some of the background, similar to what we're giving you right now.
It goes through and lists out in more detail what each subcommittee has been researching and looking at,
and also has the remaining work to be done, and listing that out. And then, has the legislative
recommendations that we want to just submit to the legislature. So, next page.
Great, thanks so much. So you all have no doubt looked at the RTD statutes, the statutes affecting RTD,
and recognized probably that they're pretty detailed, somewhat prescriptive, sometimes outdated,
because they were put into statute many years ago. And we really felt that there needed to be a refresh
and update, with an eye towards providing more flexibility and opportunities for innovation.
And there are no silver bullets in these recommendations. I like to stress adopting this wholesale will not
change everything, but it creates the opportunity for RTD to make some decisions going forward that can
help improve both the financial outlook, and improve ridership.
And I repeat, if our legislative recommendations were adopted by the legislature, it wouldn't require RTD
to do anything. But it would enable you to do a number of things.
And we highlighted four different issue areas, four different provisions, rather, that were unduly restrictive
on RTD, where it seemed they would be better to create some more flexibility. First one of those was to
remove the requirement that 30% of operating costs be funded through fares-- get rid of the fare box
requirement.
It's widely believed that RTD fares are fairly high, and that that can be a barrier both for equity, and for
increasing ridership. And at a minimum, particularly as we recover from COVID, RTD needs the flexibility
to lower fares, zero them out for some folks, maybe all folks, to really spur ridership. And ideally, over the
long term, look at reducing fares. So we wanted to give the agency the opportunity to do that.
Second was removing the restrictions that RTD has now on their ability to charge for parking. This one's a
little bit sensitive-- it's not that we want RTD to go out and make it extremely expensive to park at a park
and ride, because that would have a negative impact on ridership, and potentially equity, as well. But we
wanted to give the flexibility for RTD to do more innovative things.
Parking spaces are enormously expensive. And to build and maintain them, and provide them for free,
that might be something that RTD wants to look at, has some flexibility around.
Another is what can happen at RTD's properties, and whether or not we can get rid of some of the
restrictions that might provide more favorable opportunities for transit-oriented development-- in particular
the restrictions around requiring parking at certain levels. I mean, if there's one place that you might not
need a whole lot of parking, it could be at a transit stop, because people that could perhaps live and work
there are going to be taking advantage of the transit.
The other one is there's some restrictions around impacts to adjacent businesses. So loosing that up so
that hopefully we can create some better opportunities on RTD properties.
And then the last one has to do with RTD's ability to contract out for transit services. You have that ability
to do that now, but there's a percentage cap that exists there. We wanted to remove that cap, and also to
clarify, explicitly, that RTD has the ability to contract with local governments and nonprofit service
providers, as well.
Again, and I think general Manager Johnson has talked frequently about trying to be nimble about
providing mobility in different sizes and shapes. And by removing these restrictions, I think that enables
RTD to better partner-- particularly, to deal with first and final mile challenges.

So those are the major pieces of our legislative recommendations. Director Guissinger already mentioned
that the chairs-- well, Senator Faith Winner and Representative Matt Gray plan to carry this-- I guess Matt
Gray is no longer the Chair. But their idea is to really do a narrow bill focused on, again, these
opportunities for innovation and flexibility for RTD.
So with that-- that's the guts of the interim report. I will say that, at our next meeting, we will be finalizing
our recommendations to RTD on how to spend the CRRSA money. And I appreciated hearing the
General Manager Johnson's report prior to this meeting, where she talked about setting aside some
funds, potentially, for our recommendations. So we'll be sending a short document hopefully to you all in
the coming week, or so.
CRYSTAL MURILLO: And if I just-- thank you for adding that that additional piece on COVID-- we did
want to make sure that we're utilizing our platform as an intersectional body to really, again, provide
recommendations. The only other thing I would add is, I guess, just honing in on kind of the practical
implications on some of these legislative recommendations.
So when we talk about commercial and residential uses at stations-- and pre-COVID, the affordable
housing crisis that we're in, that is only exacerbated, in our time, in this global pandemic. And kind of the
nexus of the flexibility of one organization, RTD, in this example, and the ability to partner with
homegrown municipalities, like the city of Aurora, other local municipalities, to further amend their zoning
codes, their local ordinances, to really help get at that practical application.
There could be some really meaningful work around affordable housing, when we talk about transitoriented development, and equitable transit-oriented development, ensuring that there is affordability.
Because we know that people-- lower income folks are actually users of public transit. So that not only is
applicable in that regard, but from a sustainability standpoint in RTD, how do we ensure ridership moving
forward? Kind of that intersection and that practical applicability.
And housing, small businesses, we know all the troubles that-- and that's putting it lightly-- that our small
businesses are having to face, and how can we support overcoming this COVID situation moving forward.
ELISE JONES: So with that, I think we're open for questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you. I'll just say, you're kind of teeing up here. Tonight, staff is bringing
forward an equitable TOD policy plan for the Board to consider and adopt.
And a lot of the things you're talking about are exactly what we've been working on, what our staff has
been working on, in terms of changes that could help RTD encourage affordable housing, because
people in the affordable housing use our transit. And so trying to develop that has been a priority here,
and we're looking forward to that in our next committee meeting here later tonight.
And I guess-- I'm not sure who's sharing the screen, but if we can pull that down, I can see who all is
raising their hand, and we'll start going around. But I would just say that the example of the bill that they're
bringing forward, I think, is a good statement of the intentions of the Accountability Committee-- that this
is all about providing flexibility to the Board in moving forward with its decisions. They're using a lot of the
same things we're looking at-- an equity lens, developing our partnerships, reviewing our fares and
passes, and ways to make our decisions more transparent.
So with that, let's see-- I think I saw-- well, I'm going to ask Troy Whitmore first, because he's been my
sidekick in these meetings. And then we'll go elsewhere. I'm not sure-- can we shake the screen share
off? Well, Troy, go ahead.
ELISE JONES: I think it's RTD staff that are sharing-- yeah.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks.
TROY WHITMORE: I think you'd do a favor to leave it on there, since I'm speaking. Talking head a bit
smaller. But thank you to our co-chairs.
I did want to comment-- Lynn had mentioned seven meetings a month, and it's a lot. And these two have
been participatory in almost all of them. And the reason there are seven meetings a month is the three
subcommittees-- and I just wanted to make note of those chairs that have been working very diligently-Brett Bridges on finance, and Dave Zavala in operations, and Julie Durand Mollica on the governance
subcommittee-- a lot of heavy lifting going on there.
I guess we all kind of agreed with Lynn's comment at the beginning-- that adopting word, because we just
didn't know what was going to happen and how it was going to happen through the process. And I just
want to assure the Board that I think the communications channels, the exchange of information, has
increased dramatically, and been very, very productive.
And I sense, perhaps, a partnership, and not an adversarial situation here. It can be couched either way.
But I guess I was struck by Chair Jones' comment that went something to the effect of, not require, but
enable.
And I really appreciate that, Madam Chair, and I think that's the construct that we need to work through
during the next six months. And anything that we can do, as far as the Board members to make this
productive.
And I do want to thank the staff from DRCOG, but especially, our RTD staff. We've added a great deal of
workload to the Board Office staff and many other folks. And I see many of the names of RTD staff
members on this meeting tonight, and a number of them have been presenters. And I think they're very
helpful to this process.
So I wish the Accountability the best of luck in productivity, and pledge to do everything we can to make
this successful, and have some really meaty recommendations for us to consider later in the year. So
thank you both for being here, and that's all for now, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Troy. I think Director Williams, next.
KATE WILLIAMS: You got to get to the unmute button. Thank you, Chair Guissinger. And I really want to
thank Elise and Crystal for all of the time and all of the work that they have put into this. I think it's
extraordinary. And we are grateful. And I'm sure it's been an experience for you all, too.
There's a couple-- I want to thank you for another one, I want to thank you guys really a lot for including
somebody from the disability community, to bring that viewpoint to this group.
I have two things I want to point out, however, you should know better to think I was going to say all good
stuff. I think that, Elise, I think you said that the legislator provided $200,000 to run this, and I'm under the
impression that RTD provided that money. If I'm wrong, you know, it's OK.
ELISE JONES: You are right, I misspoke. You are so right. I appreciate that catch.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, good, because I was like, wait a minute, you know, I've been running around with
this attitude.
The other one that I think is important, is that I don't think there's any legislation now that requires RTD to
provide parking. I think that what we're looking at is being able to define how that works, and not undoing
or redoing any parking legislation. But I'm just glad that you guys have looked at that, because I think that
it's so relevant to how we use space, and how people access transportation.

So there you go. Thank you all. Good bye for now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you so much to the other Madam Chairs for
coming this evening. I know it's after hours, and for your work on this.
My question is really about making sure that advance energy, specifically storage, and maybe that solar
generation, as well, is included in the thought process here, from an equity standpoint. The public health
benefits, from an equity standpoint, the folks who would be benefiting decreasing smog in those
communities.
And I know that storage, whether that is kinetic energy from trains in the future, really thinking through
what that's going to look like, grid flexibility with electric buses-- while we're not electrifying today, I don't
think it's out of the realm of possibility that it happens in the future. And I know that energy doesn't cleanly
fit into residential or commercial.
But just wanted to kind of probe on-- is that in the conversation? And do you think we would be able to do
something like that in the future? Because I know we don't really get to take a crack at the statutes every
day.
ELISE JONES: You want us to just jump in and respond, Lynn?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You jump in, Elise, I'm sorry.
ELISE JONES: Whether or not there's anything statutorily blocking RTD from providing, say, renewable
energy on its site is something that we deployed some lawyers to take a look at. And I think at first blush,
they didn't think there was. But I think that investigation is ongoing to double check that.
And I do think if the answer ends up coming back that, indeed, there is an obstacle there, that we, the
Accountability Committee, I think would be happy to take a look at that. And I'm sure the legislative
sponsors would be, as well.
And could I respond to Director Williams comment about parking? The part of the statute that we are
suggesting be eliminated was the restriction that prevents RTD from doing anything that would decrease
the availability of parking on their site, right? A lot of RTD's sites are surface parking lots. And if you make
the argument you don't need as much parking, you could actually do something with that. And right now,
the statute blocks that. So that's the part that we were trying to fix.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Were you done, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, yes, sorry. I was just saying thank you. I think I might have muted and unmute and
remuted too quickly.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you to Councilwoman Murillo and
Commissioner Jones. And just to reiterate what some folks have been saying earlier, unbelievable
amount of work that you've been putting in. Excellent leadership.
And of course, to the members of the RTD Board, like Lynn and others, who have been attending, I think
Troy, you've been attending, as well. So thank you for all your work, as well. And Councilwoman Murillo,
actually your district and my district overlap, so I'm delighted to see that you're in leadership, and happy to
hear from you.

So my question is regarding building on the discussion on the preliminary report, and then mentioned, I
believe, Troy, and some others mentioned a little earlier, what are some of the communications that have
been taking place? Because there's so much work, as you've been saying, that is being done in these
committees and subcommittees. Communications with the community, with the media, with people in your
organizations.
So Councilwoman, so other council members in Aurora, Commissioner Jones, other county
commissioners, that you're in communication with to let them know some of the great work that you're
doing? Other members of the legislature, other than the bill sponsors-- what is the communication with
them, letting them know, here's the preliminary report, look all the stuff that we're doing-- these are
discussions that we're having, including folks from the governor's office and others.
Just to really get word out about what these communications are like. Thank you.
CRYSTAL MURILLO: Thank you, Mr. Rosenthal. I'll get started, and if my co-chair wants of chime in,
please feel free. You know, as it relates to the setup of the committee, we have a public comment before
every meeting. Unfortunately, I think, maybe three people have taken advantage of that. So there's
definitely more work to be done, as it relates to proactively bringing in different stakeholders.
I know that through our individual networks, and through our network via DRCOG, we have invited folks
and stakeholders to participate and join. I don't know if it's just because of COVID, I can attest to some
challenges that we've had in public comment on city council-- perhaps you've experienced the same. But
that doesn't mean that there isn't room for improvement there.
In fact, I think we can do more to proactively identify different stakeholders. And we've had conversations
about that of late, and trying to still figure out a proactive strategy there.
As it relates to dissemination otherwise, I regularly update my city council members of our legislative
recommendations. We have-- every other Monday, we have an opportunity on the agenda, actually, for
RTD Accountability Committee updates, so I can just speak to my communication with our other elected
officials.
But you know, I would imagine that other council members-- we have the local mayor of Lone Tree on our
Board, as well. So I would imagine there's some similar communications. We issued a press release
when we came up with our legislative recommendations.
So we've deployed different tools, kind of just depending on the circumstance. But to your point, we are
doing a lot of work, and we would welcome any recommendations, or any support, really, to get the word
out. And all of our meetings are public. The public comment is for those full committee meetings-- our
subcommittee work, just for efficiency's sake, don't have public comment. But we recap that work in those
full committee meetings either way.
So always ample opportunity to comment. We invite you to invite your constituents, or rather our
constituents, to comment.
ELISE JONES: I would just like to add that we made-- Crystal and I presented to the governor. We
presented last week to the House and Senate Transportation committees-- so the lawmakers that are
going to be dealing with this. On Friday, we're going to present to the Denver Streets partnership.
So we're pretty much presenting to anybody that's interested to try to make sure that people know more
about this work going forward. Part of our mission document requires us to have a public hearing on our
recommendations. DRCOG's staff are working on trying to set up a more prominent public hearing

process to get more involvement other than the three people that have shown up to public comment at
our committee meetings.
So I think we'll be increasingly engaging the public going forward.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And thank you for your work.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. The first-- it's a combination of a comment and a question,
because I just want to understand, as I've heard this a few times in the conversation, that there's a law
prohibiting RTD from selling parking. And it's my understanding that RTD can do whatever it wants with
parking, but I might be misunderstanding that. Can someone expound on that for me, please?
ELISE JONES: So, I don't know if you have a copy of the interim report in front of you. If you do, you can
scroll to page 23-- that's the line edit of what we're proposing. And it would strike the restriction that says
that RTD cannot reduce the availability of parking for the public on a transfer facility site.
And then, the other provision has to do with charging for parking. And it's pretty detailed. So I would
encourage you to just take a look at the statute language, and you can see exactly what we're deleting.
And that kind of answers the question. Again, this is not a silver bullet, but it will enable RTD to do more
on its properties than it does-- is able to now.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Yeah, it's my understanding that we have sold our park and rides, so I guess that I'm a
bit confused by that. But nonetheless, I'll go on to my next question.
So one of the things that gives me some concern is the last bullet here, package page 20, the contracting
with local governments and nonprofits, and just gives me some heartburn as it pertains to our contracted
services, and those that might be unionized. But happy to listen more in on the conversation.
And the second one, because you all are taking legislative recommendations, and I would hate to miss
the opportunity to provide that, as I had the opportunity to talk with some constituents over the weekend.
And one of the concerns that came up was the Telluride ordinance 10.11.11. And so if you all are taking
back things to the legislature, one that they ask is that we could appeal that decision, as it might give us
more flexibility as it pertains to affordable housing, which we'll be talking about later on this afternoon-- or
this evening.
So I could not miss the opportunity to ask that, as my constituents ask that directly to me. And I do think
that is a task that the legislature could take on for us. It could be beneficial for us, as we're talking about
equitable TOD in the future. Thank you.
CRYSTAL MURILLO: Board member Lewis, I thank you for elevating those concerns. I'm certainly open
to having further dialogue on some of those concerns. I know I've been contacted by the local union, just
trying to get a sense of the recommendations. They've been invited to participate, to add public comment.
But when we talk about proactive outreach to different constituencies, I know that they have been
engaged in different ways through the General Manager, and through other RT things. But certainly that's
not the end all, be all. So any recommendations you have to maybe alleviate some of those concerns, I'm
certainly open to, and would love to continue to partner with you on that.
As it relates to Telluride, we haven't addressed Telluride specifically, only because it's not-- well, I think
we focus on statues that specifically involve RTD. I know peripherally that CML was involved in pushing
that bill, pre-COVID, and when the legislature had to pivot away because of COVID, that's one of the bills
that went away.

And from my understanding, I also was on our Intergovernmental Relations Committee through the city,
my understanding is that bill is going to be coming up again. And I think it's a fair point to talk about some
of those ancillary legislative recommendations that maybe don't directly involve RTD, but certainly could
be-- if we're talking about intersectional and equity-- could be on that list.
Because I agree. I know that I have my staff participate in all of these calls, so indirectly through my
participation, we have directed our lobbyists to coordinate our recommendations through RTD and the
city. But not necessarily as a full Accountability Committee.
So I do think that you pose some good suggestions. And I think at our next planning meeting, definitely
we'll follow up on that. But thank you for raising those, and elevating those concerns.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. Let's see, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First, I wanted to express the thanks of everyone
to the Accountability Committee, and particularly to its two chairs for being with us this evening. I think it's
a great part of that continuing process of communication.
Also, there was a comment about electric buses before. Just for the sake of the record, and for the benefit
of the Accountability Committee chairs, recall that when we introduced our 16th Street Mall buses, when
we did redo on those, at that time, we had the largest electric bus fleet in the United States of America.
And that's just a couple of years ago. So we're still one of the largest fleets of electric buses in the US.
Relative to the Accountability Committee directly, in general, I believe that the initial findings that are
contained in the Accountability preliminary report are very well reasoned and helpful. That draft report, as
has been noted, was included in our Board packet for our January 26th Board meeting. And the directors
have that, and it's available online to the public.
That draft report itself emphasizes the preliminary nature of its findings. And it notes, obviously, that
there's a lot more that needs to be developed, which the committee appears to be equipped to do. I am
confident that all of the directors and our senior leadership team will continue to communicate,
collaborate, and cooperate with the committee to this end.
Now, the initial legislative recommendations that are contained in the draft report are particularly notable
for their focus on some specific changes to the RTD-enabling legislation that will provide RTD with greater
flexibility to improve finances and ridership. And again, to repeat Commissioner Jones's comments, these
changes are not silver bullets, and their positive effects are likely to be modest in the grand scheme of
things.
But for the sake of this record, I wanted to state that I personally have no objection to, and in fact support
these proposed legislative changes as contained in that draft report. And I appreciate the opportunity to
dialogue with the committee chairs about them.
On another note, I do see with interest the discussion in that report regarding governance, and
particularly the examination by the committee of so-called community-based opportunities for input to be
heard by the governing board. And those are set forth in detail-- it was packet pages 157 through 159. I
don't know the specific pages in the report.
But there, in that report, there are seven transit agencies that are closely examined by the Accountability
Committee to explore the extent to which community based opportunities are made available to taxpayers
for their input to the governing board of their transit agencies.

I charted out the specific observations made by the committee as to each of these agencies. Now, the
observations are obviously not completely uniform, but it's fair to say that the single point made by the
committee, as I read it, as to these agencies, regarding community-based opportunities, was this quote-since members are appointed from communities within the service area-- [PHONE RINGING] if it's for
me, tell them I'm in a meeting-- since members are appointed from committees within the service area,
local perspectives are prevalent in the board discussion.
Now, these are important, and I think even compelling words. These words, or variants thereof, are used
to describe virtually all of the agencies discussed. I was pleased to see this consensus, because it strikes
me that an analysis of the RTD Board, and community-based opportunities, would yield the conclusion
that since RTD members are popularly elected from communities within the service area, local
perspectives are prevalent in the Board discussions.
There's another observation that is helpful here, I think. These 15 directly elected directors that you see
on the screen represent 15 different geographic districts-- just like senators and representatives represent
their particular districts. And that's because the voters of Colorado mandated that direct election system
back in 1980, changing the appointed board system to the legislature originally set up.
But just like the legislature. And for that matter, like the DRCOG Board. Those directors have the
responsibility, the duty, to act both locally and regionally. That means the directors represent their districts
and all of the diversity within their districts, just like the legislature. And then they also represent the RTD
as a whole. I just thought those points were worth highlighting.
And again, I thank you very much for your work, and for the opportunity to dialogue with you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIDE: I'll go last. Go last.
CRYSTAL MURILLO: Lynn, you're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Because my phone rang. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you very much to Chair Murillo and Chair
Jones for being here and taking the time. I'll pile on in the thank yous. This is very thoughtful and hard
work. And I especially want to thank you for doing the interim report, given that it is an optional report. It's
extremely helpful to get this, look at the changes.
Also pile on and thanking you for aiming towards flexibility. I think many of the statute recommendations
are very prudent and good ways for us to re-examine what we might do moving forward.
I'm particularly excited about the recommendations to remove our restrictions on the use of facilities and
our properties. It's a subtle change, but it's a substantial one. And I would certainly point out that RTD
uses public dollars to build its systems and maintain its systems. So the public is taking the risk here. And
identifying ways for the public to benefit is prudent, and our responsibility.
You mentioned that we'd look at affordable housing, which I think is exciting, that we're moving some of
our parking obligations, which are very expensive, that's also very exciting. But in the report, I noticed that
there were some comments about removing these restrictions might open up opportunities for RTD to
diversify and increase its revenue.
I'm wondering if, at this point in the process, the committee has looked at opportunities and ideas,
however out of the box they may be, for generating new sources of revenue using our properties. And to
what extent, perhaps, you've looked at other transit agencies, and what they're doing nationally, and even
globally.

Perhaps it's too early in the process, but wondering if you might comment on any of the early ideas that
may have been thrown out. And again, thank you.
ELISE JONES: I can start, and Crystal, jump in. I think there is a lot more work to be done on the financial
piece of the puzzle-- I think that's the biggest challenge that the committee is dealing with, that RTD is
facing. I think there is some hope on a small scale that removing the restrictions on what RTD could do
with its properties could yield some more movement there on some exciting TOD-- it may be affordable
housing-- that could be positive in the revenue generation arena.
We are aware that there are other transit agencies that have engaged, but we haven't really done the full
analysis on that piece of it. I think other opportunities for revenue generation-- indirectly-- that I feel pretty
strongly about are, if we-- I'll just be honest-- there's a need to rebuild the trust between RTD and some of
the communities that it serves. And particularly, up in our neck of the woods.
And if we can do that through several things, but certainly changing the governance structure to have
more of a local voice. Maybe create local service councils that are directly engaged with planning and
collaborating with RTD, that you can rebuild the trust. And then you have that opportunity to leverage
local funds that are not there now, because there isn't a willingness to invest more in RTD because of that
trust issue.
I think ultimately, that will be a big revenue generator-- these partnerships that can occur can draw
money. I think there's opportunities also to partner with the private sector in new ways-- that will also bring
investment into the transportation system.
And we haven't fully explored a lot of these ideas, but I think, in the context of what's happening-- the
state just released its climate roadmap, and transportation is now responsible for the largest amount of
greenhouse gas emissions. And one of the solutions to that problem is transit.
And so there needs to be more resources flowing in to support transit for air quality and climate reasons,
as well as mobility reasons. So how can RTD take advantage and capture some of that? I think that will
be a part of our thinking, too, that can attract more revenues for transit as a solution for many things. And
then also, equity mobility, as well.
So we don't have the system set up to have the money flow from all the big bucket of goods that transit
provides, and we need to change that. And hopefully, we will be including some of that thinking in our
recommendations going forward in our final report.
CRYSTAL MURILLO: And just to add to that, when it comes to our recommendations-- because really,
that's what they are-- I think having representatives from local municipalities, like myself and others from
other cities and counties that deal directly with zoning and ordinances for transit-oriented development-- I
think having the flexibility in the future from RTD to develop in a certain way, not pointing to a specific
example, but hopefully with the end goal of increasing affordability and small business support-- that
doesn't supplant the municipality's ability, especially home-rule municipalities, to create those local
ordinances.
So I guess being able to articulate how far these recommendations could even go, and the necessity to
partner with local municipalities, to make sure that those goals are realized. Because recommendations
are great, but if they kind of fall short because we don't really have the authority to-- and I say, we, as the
Accountability, but also RTD to mandate or enforce something like that. For example-- not that that's a
recommendation-- that's why this is a complicated conversation.

But I think it would be helpful, to your point, to outline where the responsibility and onus lies. If it's not for it
being on RTD or on the state legislature to change a specific law, when does it transition to the
responsibility of local municipalities? And are there recommendations and resources for those
organizations to advance these conversations? Because it can only go so far just through RTD.
So that's a really good question. And to Elise's first point, we haven't gotten there. But did want to point
that out that that is top of mind, where RTD leaves off and where other jurisdictions pick up.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. As I sit here, and I listen to all of this dialogue,
and as I've read all of the reports, and I've sat in on several of the meetings, I have to say that from when
we started this entire process back in February of last year, it's been a year, and I cannot believe it's been
a year since we've been talking about collaborating and really looking at things in a completely different
viewpoint and a lens. That is just the fruition of that.
And I want to thank this Board for coming down this journey. Because I think what it has provided was our
ability to show the community that we are transparent, inclusive, collaborative, and are really willing to roll
up our sleeves and do the deep dive to see what's working and what's not working.
I will tell you that we are one of three elected boards in the country. We take that very, very seriously to
our constituents of over 3 million voices. And as I looked at this report, I couldn't help but take this
moment to really thank our Board staff, Mr. Mcmanis, Mr. McKay, Nicki and Ty Schraefer, the literally
hundreds of hours they have spent with our General Manager, our senior leadership team, our finance
department, our general counsel to pull every piece of information we have been requested.
I also want to thank Doug Rex from DRCOG in terms of working with us, and moving information forward
and looking at different alternatives. And Chair Murillo and Chair Jones, I want to thank you for being here
tonight and sharing this report with this Board of Directors.
And I would actually be remiss if I didn't say a huge thank you to First Vice Chair Guissinger for the
leadership, as well as Director Whitmore, because I think it has taken the village to move this forward.
And what we are talking about, what we are learning, and the vision that we're going to have moving
forward is going to benefit the entire region.
And I think that I am excited about what will come. And I think it's going to take a lot more work. But I think
we are on the right track, and I just wanted to say, thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair.
Director Rosenthal, is your hand still up, or is that just a vestige? Looks like maybe-- I believe we're done.
Are there any other questions? Any other comments?
Elise and Crystal, thank you so much for coming. I think this has been really good. It's making me think
that, at some point, and especially if we can ever do it in person, it would really be nice to sit down with
the whole committee and the whole Board and have a conversation like this about all the things you're
doing and we're doing, because we do overlap in so many ways. And just thanks for all your great work,
and we appreciate you being here tonight.
Anything else from you?
ELISE JONES: Just thanks for having us, and thanks for your participation, and Troy's in the committee. It
makes a big difference, as well as General Manager Johnson and the RTD staff. It has felt very
collaborative, and we do appreciate it.

CRYSTAL MURILLO: And just a thank you, Madam Chair, from me, and to the Board for having us, and
always open for collaboration moving forward. Please feel free to reach out.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks, great. Great. We are moving on-- we still got several other reports in this
meeting. And then we have another meeting coming up-- communications overview. Assistant General
Manager Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Madam Chair, thank you very much, fellow Board members. I'm going to keep this
quick. In your packet, there's a Board report that outlines a couple of highlights of things that we wanted
to make sure that the Board members were apprised of, and one is just some outreach events that we
have happening starting next week to thank our customers for riding, and to hand out hand sanitizer, and
remind people about the now federal mask mandate.
Also, starting today, we actually did some outreach at some of the N Line stations, where we handed out
hand sanitizer, and also the opportunity for people to take a short survey for us, either a survey they can
mail back or online, for us to take a look at what the riding behavior has been on the N Line, and also
some questions about how people are riding the stations they're using as we try to garner an
understanding of the relationship between our N Line promotional fare, and the fare levels with ridership.
And that'll inform our processes moving forward.
I want to also just briefly mention our enhanced approach to engagement. Now, we have heard this a lot
from the RTD Accountability Committee, from our co-chairs here tonight. But also, this enhanced
engagement and listening to our stakeholders is something that we've heard a lot about from a lot of
people, a lot of stakeholders, over a lot of years. We've heard it through the Reimagine RTD process.
Again, a lot of discussion about us giving our community partners and stakeholders an opportunity to
have a voice in things like service adjustments.
And so we are ready to jump into that right now, actually, with our next service change. It's something that
we wanted to do a year ago and then the pandemic hit. But we think this is an ample time for us to jump
into what does fostering a more open, transparent dialogue with our key stakeholders look like?
And so because this next service change is being moved from May to June, it gives us a little time. We're
on the front end of this next service change. We're going to do an open dialogue with some key
stakeholders by doing some geographic sector key stakeholder meetings where we want to listen to our
stakeholder partners, and see what they have to say about RTD service in their area.
How is their community recovering from the pandemic? What are they hearing from their RTD customers
in their districts about RTD service? And we will then take that information that will inform the draft service
plan that then Mr. Ford and Mr. Jesse Carter bring to the Board as a draft service plan in March, and then
the Board will then release that to a public hearing process, which is what we typically do.
But again, this is a great time for us to test this, and to see how this goes. As our General Manager and
CEO, Debra Johnson, has been saying in numerous stakeholder meetings-- we need to go where the
people are, we need to go listen, and we want to have this open dialogue with our stakeholders.
So there's no time like the present. And so we are going to step into this enhanced approach to
engagement. Also, as it relates to RTD Board engagement in your districts, and Mr. Sherman from CRL
will touch base with you on that in just a few minutes.
But wanted to make sure that we got that in front of the Board, because we are going to be planning
these different key stakeholder engagement opportunities that will take place in the month of February.
Board members will be apprised of it, and we'll share more information with you about that.

And the only other thing, Board members, that I wanted to share with you is the introduction of our new
Government Relations officer, Michael Davies, who started his job yesterday with us, and already is
hitting the ground running. And has been doing a fantastic job absorbing a lot of information. And he isn't
missing a beat.
And so I wanted to just give the floor to Mr. Davies real quick, who's on this call, and let him just introduce
himself to you all, and say a few words.
So Michael, are you there? Are you able to unmute?
MICHAEL FORD: I'm sorry, Pauletta, go ahead.
PAULETTA TONILAS: So this is Michael Davies, I'm sorry Madam Chair. Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Michael Davies?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, I know he was on the line earlier, and he was in the participants list just a
little bit ago. So I'm not sure if maybe we lost Michael's connection.
KATE WILLIAMS: He's here now. I see him.
PAULETTA TONILAS: OK, great.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You need to unmute, Michael. Maybe he's having a mutinous issue, and unmuting
issue.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Michael, you need to unmute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chair, it doesn't look like he has a microphone.
PAULETTA TONILAS: So what we could do is come back and let Michael see a couple of words. We
could move on to the program, Madam Chair, if you'd like.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That sounds great. That sounds great. I believe next is our lobbyist reports, and
we're starting with CRL. Roger Sherman, are you there?
ROGER SHERMAN: I'm here. Hopefully you can hear me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We can, hi.
ROGER SHERMAN: This came up faster than I expected.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Nobody overscrews that.
ROGER SHERMAN: I just briefly wanted to touch base on a couple items. First, we're looking forward to
working with Michael, and we get a chance to meet with him on Thursday. So we're looking forward to
getting started with him.
And just a couple added things, Pauletta did mention the enhanced engagement. We'll be sending out our
district snapshots tomorrow by email with some suggestions on how to engage local elected officials. I
know a lot of you-- every director approaches it differently. And we've got folks on the Board now that are
more engaged, perhaps than some have been in the past.
But we'll have some suggestions. And really what we're there for is to offer our support and assistance in
scheduling or staffing these kinds of engagement. Things like partnering with on virtual town halls with
local elected officials. You'll have a spreadsheet where you can mail merge email, phone numbers, things
like that.
And I know lots of you have those, but hopefully you'll find that spreadsheet valuable. And again, we're
here to support on that.

The other thing I wanted to mention is just a couple more things on the CAC-- that was in our report.
We've got some great meeting agenda items coming up-- we have tentatively scheduled a Jedi update for
May, which we're very excited about. Several committee members reached out to me after reading and
seeing that, and I'd already touched base with the three sponsors-- all of them, Directors Brocade, Shell,
and Lewis, suggested, I think, that May is the right timing for that. So we have put that on the long-term
schedule.
We're also in anticipation of this enhanced service change outreach. The committee will be participating
in hour-long work session with the communication team on this meeting, this coming meeting, to help
provide some input on that process.
And then in April, two things-- since we're not going to meet in March, and we won't be presenting to you
in March-- in April, we're hoping that as many Board members as possible can join the committee
meeting, you're always welcome any time. But we're going to be using the breakout function in Zoom and
breaking out, hopefully with a couple of Board members and a couple three committee members just to
get to know each other and do a little bit of talking amongst yourselves.
We typically-- those of you that have been on the Board a while-- know that we have done one-on-one
lunches or breakfasts with Board members. And obviously, we don't know-- we did not do that last year
because of COVID and varying degrees of comfort level with folks meeting. So that is the way we're going
to try to have some engagement with the committee members.
And the other thing in April, we will start the recruitment process. We're already up for that. So as you all
start thinking about that one-- some of our best resources for getting applications is Board members. So
we'll make sure that you have all that information as we start that process.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. Looks like we have questions. Director Lewis, you have a question?
We'll come back. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you have a question?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, I have a comment. You know, I think that I need to say thank
you to Roger Sherman and to CRL for stepping up for the last 11 months, and helping us connect to each
other and to the community at our meetings. And I cannot express my gratitude for the hundreds of hours
that they have spent with us trying to figure out the logistics about how we meet every Tuesday and
connect to the community.
Even when other people were struggling to try to figure out what to do, we started utilizing their portal to
do a pretty seamless process. And so I just want to take this opportunity to say, thank you, a sincere
thank you to Roger Sherman, and to the CRL staff who worked with us, and really helped us get through
this whole process. So that's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're welcome. Director Lewis, did you have something to say?
SHANTEL LEWIS: I did. I had a question for Pauletta, but I wasn't sure if you wanted us to wait until the
end of all of the updates and then come back to Q&A, but I'm happy to chime in now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, let's go back to Pauletta in a few minutes. We'll finish our lobbyists, and then I
think Michael has his system working. So we'll bring them back in a few minutes, if that's OK.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All righty. Thank you, Mr. Sherman, and thanks for all your efforts. It's Brandeberry
McKenna, Jenifer is with us.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Hi, can hear me?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep.

JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Thanks for having us. I'll go through our updated reports very quickly, but first
and foremost, our entire team would like to welcome Michael Davies to his new gig, and we're looking
forward to working with you. And I think we already have something set up in the next week for all of us to
connect.
We've had a busy couple of months, as you all know. The legislature did go into session January 13, per
the constitution. They stayed for three days, and actually did about seven pieces of legislation-- none of
them were germane to, or had any operational impact to the district.
They adjourned, and are tentatively planning on coming back, and they will come back on February 16th.
I think they're all tracking and following COVID numbers. But our best guess is that the legislature will
start in earnest on the 16th, and go at least through May. Or if it goes for all 120 constitutional days,
which would now be 117, I think that would put us at an end the first week of June.
So since then, the executive committee-- which is made up of leadership-- has met to really talk through
how do we do a legislative session in the time of COVID. And I think the best and most simplest way to
say that is, it'll look a lot like the last session of 2020 was last May and June, where there will be
opportunities for testimony and public participation. There will be some remote availability, as well.
The joint budget committee has continued to meet this year. You can track them via audio-- they do not,
at this time, have public participation there. And what we've seen is committees are doing what they
normally do in January, which is a lot of the SMART Act hearings that are required. They're trying to get
those done virtually in January, and the first part of February, so that when they convene on the 16th, the
legislation will get introduced, and we don't have to spend time in the session doing those traditional
SMART Act hearings and joint presentations.
And to that point, too, things that RTD had to do, one was in person at the capitol on the old Supreme
Court building, there's an Audit Committee report where Director Malpiede and General Manager
Johnson presented. The Audit Committee presented the audit on RTD-- it's a statutory requirement that
every five years the legislature does an audit.
I thought the committee had some great questions, and both the General Manager and Board Chair did
an awesome job in replying to some questions that committee members had, and making it clear that the
district was committed to implementing the audit recommendations.
The other opportunity that legislators had to get to know the new General Manager, and have some
exposure to RTD, was our statutory requirement to present to the joint transportation committee. That
was virtual. And it just gives you a flavor of how things are just still kind of trying to be worked out in terms
of participation.
So we sent the link and our Board report for all of the Board members, if they wanted to listen. And it was
really the only-- the participants were the committee members, Chair Malpiede and General Manager
Johnson. So the joint presentation, I think, was very well received. We were getting text messages from
legislators about how impressed they've been with the leadership, and the new General Manager.
And finally, I think we've reported in our reports, we continue to get folks in front-- transportation leaders
out there to meet General Manager. And those have gone very well. We also have worked really closely-we heard a lot tonight about the Accountability Committee, both chairs of the-- well, the Chair and the
Vice Chair of the Transportation committee have been working with us closely.
And I think it just is a very good sign and a really good shift that, instead of having bills being drafted by
folks that are coming at RTD to get us, or do something to us, we're in a really different, new day, thanks

to the work from the Accountability Committee, and the work of Director Whitmore, and Guissinger,
Malpiede, and the General Manager and staff. I think people see that there's an opportunity here to work
together on legislation.
And that bill is going to be introduced, I think, in the first part of the session. I don't think it'll be introduced
on February 16th. And we have been allowed opportunity, as of today, to work with the drafter on the
legislation, because as you can imagine, the devil's in the details of how these things are written. And just
to have the permission of the sponsors, and being able to work collaboratively with the Accountability
Committee to get this bill drafted in a way that is workable for the district, we feel very positive about.
Finally, I just also wanted to let you know, per the Chair's request, we did send an invite to Adam
Zeringue, who's the Governor Polis's policy person, to attend your study session next February 9th. And
we're waiting to hear back from him. We just did that today.
So we're continuing to have ongoing dialogue with the policy people in the governor's office, as well as
the legislators. And look forward to working with all the new members-- thank you for your time. I think
we've met all of you individually through Zoom. Thank you for reporting into us as you have your meetings
with legislators, or run into various folks, that's really helpful just that we're all communicating together.
And we look forward to working with you. And feel free to call us any time, and I'm happy to answer any
questions.
I think you're muted, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much. There's a lot happening, and we appreciate you all staying on
top of all of it. I would agree that the Chair and General Manager did a great job at both the Audit
Committee and the SMART Act presentation last week. And we appreciate all your help, BBMK.
Patty Doersch and Mike Dino, is there anything happening federally?
PATTY DOERSCH: A couple of things to touch on real quickly. First of all, just want to second the strong
praise for Michael Davies-- I've worked with him before. And just today, issue came up, RTD is signing on
to a letter for a very ambitious ask, for $39 billion for transit funding. The letter was poorly worded, it
wasn't effective.
Michael engaged right away. He knew who I was talking about, what I wanted, and we got changes
made. So he's earned his pay. He's already hitting the ground, contributing very meaningfully. And so I
can't imagine a stronger successor to Sherry Elrod, and I'm thrilled to have Michael on the team.
Just want to touch a few things. Mayor Pete is now Secretary Pete. He's still in DC, he's still a rock star to
the nerds of transportation, and we're really looking forward to working with him.
We're setting up meetings for Debra Johnson with a congressional delegation and staff. We want to get
those underway and those happening at the state level. We want to get her introduced around on the Hill.
And then, I know we're running out of time. I just want to touch on a couple of issues with the mask
mandate that came up. First of all, the question was, if it's not a federal grant condition, how are feds
reaching what is clearly local service? Well, it's done because the CDC order was issued not under the
Constitution's Commerce Clause, it was issued under section 361 of the Public Health Service Act.
And for Director Tisdale, I'm going to quote you, it's 42 United States Code Section 264. So that authority
isn't limited by the Commerce Clause. So they can get into your little local transit rides. And per Director
Bloom's very astute comment-- the mask mandate, it is a surge requirement. It's only in place for
hundreds days.

So the order's language of use your best efforts to get riders and employees to wear a mask, it's less a
message of like heavy handed federal enforcement, it's more a message of this is a public health crisis,
and this is a push. We know masks work, let's make it happen.
And then Chair Rivera-Malpiede's concern about exemptions-- there's people who can't wear masks-- the
CDC order expressly provides certain exemptions for there-- children under two, folks with medical
conditions. So they're not included within the CDC mandate.
And finally, a lot of discussion on enforcement. I don't want to go over territory, but I do just want to make
the point that, the enforcement language was basically requested by the aviation unit. They want to be
able to say, flight attendants want to say, it is a federal requirement that you wear a mask, so they can
kick them off.
But it's a different environment in an airport. Highly controlled airplane, highly controlled. They can act on
that federal mandate. So it's different in the transit on the surface side, TSA recognizes that.
And so they're looking for cooperation. They devised a sign you should post, provide notice, et cetera, is
that's the way to get enforcement. I think the RTD procedures, outlined by Debra Johnson, that they
sound like they really hit the mark. They find a happy spot in there.
But again, the aim is our public health aims. And there's not a heavy handed enforcement element
involved in that. So that's all to cover tonight.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you. We'll take questions real quick for our lobbyists. Shantel, did you
have a question here? Or is your question for Pauletta?
SHANTEL LEWIS: It was for Pauletta, I'll wait.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, well, thanks. I appreciate you all coming, and I know you're all doing-- all of
you doing great work for RTD, and we really, really appreciate it. We would not be in the same place
without it.
Michael, we are excited to have you here. We're hearing great things about you. Are you able to talk
now? Oh, no.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Can you hear me all now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, all right, yes.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Oh, great. So sorry about my technical issues. Thank you for the opportunity to briefly
introduce myself. I'm thrilled to be serving in the role of Government Relations officer. I certainly look
forward to meeting you all individually, learning about the legislative goals and priorities of the Board. And
I certainly look forward to working with RTD's contracted advocates, and developing strategies to
implement those priorities and goals of the Board.
So I'm happy to take any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, well we know we have a question from Director Lewis for Mr. Tonilas-- why
don't we start with that? Director Lewis?
SHANTEL LEWIS: Thanks, I appreciate that. Welcome, Michael Davies, excited to have you as a part of
the team. And unfortunately-- or maybe fortunately for you-- I don't have any questions directly that I'd like
to address. I did have a few questions for Pauletta.
Packet page 22, there's a box here that has the dates and locations for the upcoming station outreach.
And the times are interesting to me, because they're between 4:00 to 6:00 PM-- 6:30 to 8:30 PM. But I
remember a presentation that I believe, Bruce Aybor, or maybe someone from operations, where they

told us that the peak and non-peak hours actually didn't exist, and if they showed us a graph it was more
like a roller coaster.
And so I was curious if we had adjusted our outreach time, where we normally would reach the most
people during our peak hours to accommodate that variety as we're seeing in terms of ridership.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Director, thank you so much, I appreciate that. So yes, an answer to your
question, we did adjust things. So if you remember, in the summer, we did quite a score of outreach
events at various stations. And we learned from the expansive effort that we did then where we were
seeing the most ridership.
And so what we did for this one was adjust to some of the stations where we are seeing the most people
and the times of day that we're seeing the most people. And so we did craft that based on what our
experiences were, and what we are seeing across the system over the past months. So I hope that helps.
SHANTEL LEWIS: That's very helpful, yes, that's very helpful. The second question I have for you is
regarding the N Line the N Line customer survey-- it's on package page 23-- and the language is kind of
vague. It reads, the survey will also ask if customers' stations will change when the promotional fare ends.
And one, I'm not sure if I understand what that means. And two, if I do understand what that means, I
wonder if we might pose that question differently. But before I do so, maybe seek clarity from you,
Pauletta, about that specific line.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, thank you so much for that. So it is worded fairly briefly, not a lot of
information-- designed to just give you guys a quick snapshot. But what we're trying to do is the N Line
promotional fare that the Board approved and put into motion prior to the pandemic has been in existence
since we opened the N Line. And the design of that pilot project was that it go for six months, and the
intended date for it to end, at the end of March-- I think it's March 27th-- is when this project is estimated
to end.
And so what we're trying to do through this survey is to see what the riding behaviors have been, and if
people are more so willing to use certain stations along the line, and ride, given the promotional fare.
Now, the oddity of this is that we've been in the pandemic, right? And so ridership has been very different
than it would have been say, a year ago.
And so we will learn some Nuggets from this survey that will help us, and help staff look at how we could
perhaps make changes to the N Line, if people are still planning to use stations, even if the last two
stations on the line revert back to what our regional fare structure is. If that is going to change at all
behaviors.
So it's really a planning tool to help us. But I'm happy to share additional information with you, too, and
capture that offline, if that was not enough information.
SHANTEL LEWIS: No, it's fine. I actually-- selfishly, I appreciate that I picked up my packet over the
weekend and it was, I think, 60 pages, and not 360 pages. And so I will not complain about that by any
means. But I might offer a suggestion, as we are looking at the N Line customer service customer survey,
that maybe we could ask if we could contact people in three or so months to see how their travel might
have changed in ways that we might not be able to anticipate now?
And then, once we were able to reach back out to them, to see if their travel had changed after the
reduced fare pilot. And so those are my suggestions. You don't have to do anything with those in this
moment, but I just wanted to say those out loud.

And then finally, and this is my last question, Pauletta, on packet page 23, it talks about the enhanced
stakeholder engagement. And one thing that I hope that we are doing, as we're going out and having
conversations with folks, is really focusing on paying attention to the folks who are utilizing our bus
services. As I recall that we had seen the highest ridership on our bus, and the largest declines on our
rail.
And so really making sure that those who are really dependent on those services-- and I would imagine
most folks using our services now have an opportunity to voice whatever it is that they like to voice to
RTD, but really focusing on that bus, since that is where we've seen steady ridership.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you, yes. And this newer stakeholder engagement we're trying at the front
end of our next service change, we're taking some baby steps into it, with the intent to kind of learn how
this went and grow it. We do have some key stakeholder groups that we are going to work with, including
our own Citizens Advisory Committee, some of the local coordinating councils, so that we can start the
ball rolling on this. And then we'll learn from that, and we'll make adjustments moving forward. And thank
you for your comments.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Pauletta. That's it for me, Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you.
I see general Manager Johnson has raised her hand, so if you don't mind, Director Tisdale, I'm going to
go to her next.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair, and thank you Director Tisdale for yielding
the floor. I wanted to address to Director Lewis's comments, and thank you to Ms. Tonilas for addressing
this. So as we talk about enhanced outreach, as she indicated in her comments, I'm always talking about
go to where the people are. And I want to ensure that we have an understanding to garner what it is that
they need.
So as we go forward, and we may talk about a service change, what I want us to do as we go forward is
have a continuous feedback loop whereby we're not waiting for a service change to ascertain what it is
that our customers need. So basically, if we have an issue that we see that's prevalent-- when I talked
about looking at data, that's looking at APC, automatic passenger counter data, assessing feedback we're
getting from customers, and engaging. So we basically can do this programmatically going forward,
because there are tweaks that we can do to the schedule.
For instance, if somebody is talking about they don't have a direct transfer, perhaps we're adding in a
relay-- and what I mean by that is adding in an extra bus, just like you would do with a race. You pass off
the baton to another bus to carry people. So those are the types of things we see going forward.
And as we do this incrementally, we, in turn, will actually go to where the people are by saying, when
we're invited to different forums, have a conversation, as opposed to just holding our own meetings where
we're saying, come to us. I want to get on other entities' agenda, where we can go to them where they
already have a captured audience with a specific agenda, so then we can talk about our service.
So I just wanted to clarify, that was the intent behind the dialogue there. So thank you.
SHANTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate that, General Manager.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Returning to a topic that we have discussed
several times tonight, I wanted to let you know that APTA, we are hosting a town hall meeting tomorrow

at 10:00 AM on the CDC mandatory mask on transit policy, and the TSA security directive concerning
that. I think you have each received a separate email from APTA advising you of that town hall.
But for those of you who have questions, and if your schedule permits, 10:00 AM tomorrow, town hall, on
the mandatory mask on transit policy. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. That's great to know.
Great, anything else? Have I missed anybody? No? All right, we still have one more meeting.
Let's take a five minute break. It's about one minute after 8:00. We'll start back up at six after. OK? Thank
you.

