1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, May 21, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m. Chair
Anderson asked any listeners that might be on the conference call to mute their
phones to avoid feedback.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Chair of the Board
Director, District H

Present
Present

6:59 PM
6:59 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Absent

6:59 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Absent

6:58 PM
6:59 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

6:59 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

6:59 PM
6:59 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Present

6:59 PM
7:03 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Vice Chair
Committee Chair

Present
Present

6:59 PM
6:58 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:59 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, Bob Downes, John Elias, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Mike Gil, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins,
Erik Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Brenden Morgan, Judy
Murphy, Alice Osner, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Sue
Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Beverly Scott, Walt Stringer, John
Tabert, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Julia Yugel

Others Present:

Robert Boehm, Margo Cochrane, Tammy Crynes, Becky Edwards,
Suzie Fleming, Diana Gallegos, Audrey Gowen, Dough Gragg, Shari
Janata, Kath Maher, Loretta Niquette, Eric Perry, Sandra Perry, Kenny
Shepard, Matt Silva, Roland Stais, Candace Taylor, Joe Triplett, Gary
Van Dorn, Paula Wallace, Cheryl Wallace, Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• August 2013 Service Plan
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve moving the proposed August 2013 Service
Change as summarized below and described in Attachment A on to public
review and comment.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the
motion to move this to the full
Board at the May 28th, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Daly seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, explained that staff is asking to
move the proposed changes into public comment. This is not approval of
the service changes. As in the past, the changes are focus on addressing
issues related to on-time performance and to address the issues they have
seen arise since the opening of the West Line. He thanked Terry Howerter
because despite the financial report, Terry Howerter has given Bus
Operations some funding for issues that needed to be addressed due to
some bus service changes that were implemented as part of the West Line
opening.

Jessie Carter, Service Planning and Scheduling Manager, reviewed the
proposed changes. He mentioned that it represents $1.1 million worth of
service improvements. The largest cost of the improvements is the Route
16 proposal, which represents $840,000 by itself and will require 8
additional vehicles per day to operate. Other changes include the
reinstatement of the Route 116X (South Kipling Express) and the 87X
(South Wadsworth express). These two represent $140,000. Other areas
in the district are also included.
Staff will conduct six (6) public hearings in early June in Aurora, Boulder,
Golden, Downtown Denver (2) and Lakewood. Once they compile the
feedback from the public, they will summarized it and present it to the Board
at the June Operations and Customer Service Meeting.
Chair Anderson asked if the 116X will run as it did before the West Line
opening. Jessie stated that the route will be reinstated sooner than the
actual August service changes on May 28th. They will have three trips
during each peak period. The 116L will still run and they will also have
additional service on the CS operating between Federal Center Station and
Civic Center Station. The KC is being discontinued. Chair Anderson asked
how early first bus leaves. Jesse stated that the bus leaves at 5:36 a.m. to
arrive Downtown at 6:34 a.m. Bruce stated that the schedule is arranged
around 7, 8 and 9 a.m. work starts. Chair Anderson stated she understands
that staff will have a meeting in Lakewood to explain the reinstatement of
the route. Jessie affirmed that will be the process.
Director Lubow stated “I have spoken to a couple of transportation staff in
my local communities; Longmont and Broomfield and they both said that
they’ve had very good interaction with RTD staff about these proposed
recommendations. I wanted to thank the staff for that, because one of the
big things I am pushing is just increased cooperation between the staff and
the stakeholders as well as the riders in making these changes because it
impacts so many people’s lives. Thank you for doing that. I’m still going to
be working with riders also to see if there are ways in addition to the public
meetings to get their input.”
Director Hoy asked about the terminology used, especially on the 120X. It
states that the route will have a $12,700 weekday cost impact. Jessie
stated that it is going to cost $12,700 more annually to operate the
additional weekday trips. He explained that certain routes have weekend
service so there needs to be clarification as to what the costs cover.
Director Hoy said he has had some comments from people who work at
Flatirons regarding service on Saturday evenings. He believes this service
concern has been addressed with the proposed August changes by
eliminating a Sunday morning trip and adding a Saturday evening trip.

Jessie confirmed this was correct; the trip being taken away did not have
any ridership.
Director Daly asked if the 116X stopped at Federal Center. Jessie stated
this route by-passes the Federal Center Station; however, Federal Center is
still serviced by the CS with three trips during each peak period that
start/end at Civic Center Station. Bruce stated that this serves the Federal
Center in order to make the necessary connections. Jessie stated that they
did not want to reduce capacity with the discontinuation of the KC. Director
Daly stated that he admires the staff’s flexibility and making this decision
within a month to address riders’ concerns.
Director Sisk understands that over $840,000 will be going to the West
Line. Jessie explained over $840,000 is going to route 16 as they have
seen a 25% increase in ridership; instead of having 6,000 boardings per day
the route now has close to 9,000 boardings. They are increasing service by
6-7% but the ridership has increased by 25%. Jessie stated that they are
addressing a need for increased service to accommodate the demand.
Bruce stated that since the opening of the West Rail Line, Route 16 is
overloaded; drivers have to leave people at stops. Director Sisk stated that
he understand that having to make adjustments is part of opening a new
line; however, he thinks that when we open new areas we should anticipate
some of these reactions. He would also like to see a review of the Superior
Park-n-Ride and a Longmont to DIA express bus. Director Sisk said that he
heard there are some Longmont routes that will be adjusted with the
proposed changes. Jessie stated they are changing the layover point for one
route as they had some neighborhood complaints. There are also additional
trips added to certain routes to accommodate for the increased ridership
from school starting.
Director Lubow stated that she understands that the staff is looking at the
Longmont-DIA proposal. Bruce stated that staff has no shortage of requests
that they review. Jessie stated that they will get back to the Board with the
different scenarios being reviewed.
Director Bagley stated that since he has been on the Board, the AT was
terminated. Service to DIA is a component every community wants. He
asked that before we look at direct routes from anywhere to DIA, those lines
that were removed three or four years ago need to be reviewed as well.
Director Menten stated that she handed out a few letters before the meeting
to each Director with regard to the West corridor. She had a public meeting
and the people have various concerns. There are routes adding an additional
40 minutes of commuting time per day. She expects several people to
attend the Board Meeting to participate in Public Participation. She thanked

the staff for their support. Route 17 has been eliminated partially and she
hopes that it will come up in the future. With regard to the line to DIA, she
has heard a lot about the AF route. Also with regard to the stroller policy,
she would like the Board to also look at a luggage and bike policy. The
letters that Director Menten handed out to the other Directors are available
for review in the Board office.
Chair Anderson thanked staff for the quickest turnaround she has seen.
She knows they have been listening to people and working with them to
come up with the changes that are being proposed. Bruce stated that they
expect the changes on Route 16 in terms of additional services to start on
June 9th in anticipation to the Board’s approval of the August changes. Also
on June 9th as schools let out the ridership load decreases and they will be
looking at changing the West Rail from 3 to 2 cars.
Director Menten asked how often this type of proposal moves to the next
step in such a short period of time as next week. Bruce stated that this
request is not coming back for approval to the Board next week. After the
Board approves it would go to public comment. Next Tuesday it will come
up to the Full Board for approval to go out to the public.
Director Hoy stated that the public meetings are specifically to allow the
opportunity for the public to have more dialogue with staff. He does not
discourage anybody from coming to the Board Meeting but they will be able
to have more dialog and input at the public hearings.
Director Menten stated that her mission is to empower the public as much
as possible to avoid complaints that people did not know about the changes.
Director Tobiassen asked for a timeline for this process. Bruce stated that
the normal process is done three times a year. It is typically in May when
school gets out, August when school goes back in session and in January.
Normally they would not be able to makes changes like the 116X, but
because of the way KC and 116X were constructed in the run board they
were able to make the change somewhat out of cycle. The 116X will be
returning next Tuesday (May 28th, 2013). Similarly because of the overload
on the 16, they can start earlier. Everything else is intertwined and part of
the system as the whole; therefore any additional changes have to wait until
the August recommendation is approved.
Director Bagley reminded the Board members that as a procedure, if this
issue is moved tonight by all of the board members it would go to the
Unanimous Consent. If is not unanimous tonight then it would go into the
Recommended Action allowing for further discussion next week. He wants
to make sure all Board members understand this when they vote tonight.

Director Tobiassen thanked the staff for their great work.
General Manager (GM) Washington stated that many staff members have
experienced this with the T-Rex project so this is not new to them. They try
to anticipate everything but there is always something new and they try to
make those adjustments as soon as possible.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Bruce Daly, Director, District N
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Bill James
Committee Chair Tobiassen
Recommended Action

declared

the

motion

PASSED

to

the

C. Updates

• Stroller Policy
Alice Osner, General Superintendent of Transportation, presented the Stroller
Policy Update that can be found in the May 21st, 2013 Operations and
Customer Service Agenda Packet. They will be enforcing the stroller policy
and will be coordinating internally with marketing, security and street
supervisors to work with operators to ensure that passengers in wheel chairs
have access to the priority securement area; people with stroller are
expected to collapse the stroller and move to another area in the bus. They
will put new exterior signage so that passengers are prepared to collapse
their strollers when boarding. Bruce Abel stated that this approach has been
developed over time and this is an issue that all staff needs to pay attention
to.
Director Folska thanked staff for their efforts as this is not just a problem
here but at the national level.
Director Rivera-Malpiede asked if the marketing plan will outreach to the
Mommy groups to let them know that those massive, non-collapsible
strollers will not be allowed. She also asked if they have a big stroller that
will not collapse would they be denied service. Alice stated that they would
be put on notice that they will need to get a collapsible stroller. They do
plan to socialize it in schools and other places. Director Rivera-Malpiede

stated that since we are emphasizing the use of alternative transportation
methodologies, it would be advantageous to work with all the TMAs and
TMOs as part of the marketing plan to outline this policy about strollers. We
will need to do a lot of proactive support and education on this. She also
asked when the policy will go into effect. Alice stated that it will go into
effect by mid-summer. Bruce stated that though it is called a Stroller Policy
it addresses a broad range of issues such as passengers bringing packages
and luggage onto the bus.
Director Daly stated that this is good for the drivers to feel more comfortable
when facing these situations. He appreciates strengthening the rules. He
also suggested recommending for young mothers with strollers to ride light
rail when possible. Director Daly shared that he had been on the West Line
and was able to see how much easier it was for mothers to ride the train.
Director Menten asked what happens if the passenger does not comply.
Alice stated that they would have the operator supported by security; that is
why they are putting the marketing plan in place to educate the people
about the policy. Director Menten stated that she understands that the
operator would not have to ticket these people but rather the police
department would.
Director Folska mentioned that she attended the Disability Etiquette
Workshop. She thought it was very helpful for the riders. Director Folska
stated that Sarah Boettcher is an awesome bus driver. She believes this is a
great program for the user and the people that partner with RTD.

• Smart Card Project Status Update
Bruce stated that the report can be found in the May 21, 2013 Operations
and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet. Judy McMurphy stated
that there was a correction to the report. It stated that there were 13M
taps during the month of April when really it should read 1.3M taps during
the month of April for the EcoPass and CollegePass riders. The Smart Card
Customer Service Center continues to distribute cards upon request, issue
replacement cards and answer riders’ questions when they arise.
All bus installations are completed and RTD and Xerox staff have updated
onboard software of the 5% of vehicles with performance issues identified.
All Light Rail validators have been installed. They have issued a Request for
Proposal (RFP) to retain a work order contractor to provide on-call
installation electrical services for additional validators as needed.

The Fare Inspector software is functioning sporadically and RTD staff is
encouraging Xerox to execute the suggested solution as soon as possible.
On May 10, RTD received 300 Retail Point of Sales (RPOS) Terminals. They
are working on the Retailer’s contract for legal review. RTD Marketing will
meet with Safeway and King Soopers once the contract is signed to develop
the appropriate marketing campaign. They expect to have 150 locations in
addition to the web portal already in place. Planning for Phase II is in
progress; staff continues to revise the schedule to ensure adequate time for
a successful launch of Phase II.
Director Lubow asked if they have reached out to other large retailers that
serve people of all incomes. Beverly stated that they have reached out to 711 and are considering Walgreens. They also have some mom and pop
businesses that currently sell or fare media that they are hoping will want to
continue with the Smart Cards. Director Lubow asked if they have thought
about Target and Wal-Mart. Beverly stated that they have not but that they
will look at the possibility.
Director Folska asked if it is possible to print the Smart Cards on the
computer. Beverly stated that the Smart Cards are encrypted; they would
have to have the encryption key in order to be valid when they tap it. They
can print a similar card but they would not be able to tap the card. Bruce
explained once a person has purchased an RTD issue Smart Card they can
go online and manage it. Director Folska asked it this also works for paying
for parking. Beverly stated not at this time. It is in the project list but they
have not assigned a date to it.

• Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Project Status Update
Bruce Abel stated that the report can be found in the Board Packet. Eric
Farrington, Project Manager, said that they are proceeding with the
implementation. INIT has been able to solve the CAD/AVL central system
issues that halted bus installations. They have resumed the installation and
are expecting an August completion for the installation.
Director Tobiassen asked if everything will be done by August. Eric stated
they will be done with the installation. Director Tobiassen asked if they are
still running with two radio systems. Eric stated that they are and that both
are independent.

• 2012 Bus Accidents Executive Summary
Bruce Abel stated that the report can be found in the May 21st, 2013
Operations and Customer Service Agenda Packet. The overall synopsis is
that staff is pleased with the improvements on safety.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley mentioned that he attended the Centennial Counsel of
Neighborhoods meeting. Tina Jaquez made a presentation on the I-225 Corridor
and she did a fantastic job.
Director Bagley also mentioned that he attended the accident free day last
Thursday. Chair Anderson, Director Daly and he attended. There will be two more
Accident Free days and he encourages the Board members to attend these events.
Director Bagley shared that Austin Jenkins gave them a tour of the facility. Austin
introduced them to extremely valuable employees; it is important to recognize those
people that have done some exemplary work. He wants those individuals to know
how much he appreciates what they do.
Director Daly mentioned that a couple of weeks ago they had the Pine Junction
Park-n-Ride Groundbreaking. He thanked Directors Lasater and Menten for
participating.
Director Tobiassen highlighted an article in the Aurora Magazine. It is a photo
essay about the people that work the night shift keeping our buses running.
GM Washington stated that with regards to the email on graffiti that the Board
members received, staff is working on that and will provide the gentleman a correct
point of contact.
GM Washington also mentioned that there was an email about the Governor signing
the HB-1272 into law next week. The Board Office is taking a tally of who wants
to attend.
Director Menten asked who the correct contact is to handle issues related to
graffiti. GM Washington stated that it is Robert McIntosh, Senior Manager of
Facilities. He said staff will also notify the city staff for those areas that are not
RTD property as much of the graffiti is not in our property. David Genova stated
that he has been notified that Lakewood police has officers specifically working on
the West Line to try to identify the people doing the graffiti. Director Menten
stated that she would like to know what property is RTD versus the City of
Lakewood in reference to the email sent to the Directors. David will provide
additional detail for the whole board.
Director Rivera-Malpiede mentioned that there was an article on CNN about how
transit riders are happy people. She also mentioned she received an email from one
of her constituents sharing with her that Prince Harry was in the 16th mall shuttle.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 18, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 8:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

