## I. Executive Committee Agenda

Chair Tobiassen called the Executive Committee to order at 12:00PM

Committee members in attendance:               Chair Tobiassen, 2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler, Director Francone and Director Solano

Committee members absent:                                          1st Vice Chair Hoy

Other Board members present:              None

Others present:              General Manager Genova, Acting Executive Director Barbara McManus

## II. July Board Meeting Agenda Review

Chair Tobiassen provided the initial review of the agenda and indicated there was one unanimous consent item and 3 recommended action. Chair asked if there were any retirees attending the Board Meeting. Barbara McManus said we had not had any responses to date.  Chair Tobiassen spoke to the performance at the International Roadeo/Rodeos and the participants that would be recognized at the Board Meeting.  Director Francone indicated she would do a brief review of the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee and that she was planning to reach out to the Board members to remind them to review the contents of the packet and contact her if they had any questions regarding the GM Performance Goals for 2017.  Chair Tobiassen confirmed that the committee reports and last month’s Board Meeting minutes would be in the Board meeting packet on Friday for all Directors to review.

GM Dave Genova said he had some supplemental information that was requested by Board members from the committee meetings.  GM Genova spoke agenda item B, the Amendment to Lease for Office Space at Civic Center Plaza – 1560 Broadway, Suites 510, 605, 610, 700, 1000, 1075 and 1099, and the questions that were asked in the committee meeting.  GM Genova gave an overview of the staffing housed at Civic Center as follows: 280 staff members of which 35% or 62 people are contractors mostly in the Access-a-Ride call center.  IT and Engineering were also housed in Civic Center and 10% of the FasTracks team.

The additional question that had been asked was what the cost would be to move staff from Civic Center.  Director Deadwyler asked what the issue was at the committee meeting regarding this item.  Dave answered the overall cost of the prime leased space in the Civic Center building and the thought that there might  be the opportunity to save money by relocating to less expensive space already owned by RTD.  Dave spoke to the market research that had been completed over the last few years in looking to renovate, add space or relocate as part of the renovation of Market Street and the current 1600 Blake location.  The size of space needed coupled with the cost on moving made this choice cost prohibitive and with several FasTracks projects still to complete the decision was made to pass on the project.  Dave went on to say some research had been done in the Aurora market and the pricing in many cases was the same with the added challenge of finding a space that was large enough.  Taking all the information into consideration, the square foot pricing negotiated by Susan Altes was a great price.

Director Solano asked if the Telephone Information Center (TIC) would be moving to Civic Center.  Dave Genova stated that RTD owns a building close to the Ball Park called the 711 Building and that space was being considered for the relocation since that group would be growing.

Director Deadwyler asked if the parking lot at 1600 Blake would be going away and if the Board Meeting facility would be moving.  GM Genova said the same amount of spaces would be available in the underground parking lot of the new renovation once construction was completed and that there were no plans to move the Board meeting space.  Chair Tobiassen noted that while the construction was being completed the parking would be displaced.  Dave Genova said he did not know what that looked like at this time.

Dave Genova went on to speak about the questions asked regarding agenda item C, Acquisition of Easements - Southwest Plaza Transfer Center.  Director Francone asked how the price grew to such a large dollar amount from a relief station to improvements to a Transfer Station.  GM Genova outlined the capital improvement that would be required to complete the Transfer Station such as extending the infrastructure to bring the Transfer Station closer to the pedestrian bridge and allow for 2 additional busses.  The added improvement would require the easements being requested in this Board action.  GM Genova asked if it would help in the decision making process if he provided a complete listing of expenses.  It was decided that would be added to the packet and sent to the Directors via e-mail.

Director Francone asked about signage because she has not seen any when she was looking at the stop, and would like to see this remediated.  Director Francone described the layout of the current stop and transfer center.  Director Solano asked if this was just for the easements needed to proceed.  Chair Tobiassen confirmed that this action needed to be completed before staff could move forward in building the full structure.  GM Genova said staff would need to come back with the project plan once the land was obtained and improvements were complete.

Chair Tobiassen asked if there was parking at the proposed transfer center.  GM Genova stated there were no plans to add parking additional but there was currently parking for 200 at that location.

Director Deadwyler asked about the Approval of General Manager’s 2017 Goals and the results of the Survey Monkey that had just been completed.  Barbara McManus explained the item the Board would be approving is the 2017 Goals and the Survey Monkey results just completed was for the 2016 Evaluation of the General Manager.  Once the 2017 Goals were approved the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee would continue the 2016 GM evaluation by distributing the June survey results as a baseline for 2016.  Director Deadwyler thanked Barbara McManus for the clarification  Director Solano asked about item A, Revised RTD Transit Service Policies & Standards, and the change to the verbiage that was requested in committee.  Barbara McManus pointed the committee to the highlighted portion of page 21 in the Executive Committee Agenda Packet that reflects the requested changes.  After review of the revision the Chair asked for a motion to move the Board Meeting Agenda forward.

Motion:                            Director Paul Solano made the motion to approve moving the July 19th Board agenda to the full Board.

Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Chair called for the question and the agenda was approved unanimously.

#### A. Revised RTD Transit Service Policies & Standards

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors approve the RTD Service Standards as revised July 2016, thereby adopting the updated policies and standards as included in Attachment B.

##### a. Atch A - Highlights of Revisions to Transit Service Policies & Standards

##### b. Atch B - Service Standards Final

##### c. Redlined Service Standards - Proposed Revisions 2016

##### d. Atch C - Service Standards 2016 Power Point

#### B. Amendment to Lease for Office Space at Civic Center Plaza – 1560 Broadway, Suites 510, 605, 610, 700, 1000, 1075 and 1099

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to amend and extend the lease agreements by and between the Regional Transportation District and CO-Denver Post Tower, LLC, formerly known as CO-One Civic Center Plaza, LLC and EOP-One Civic Center Plaza, LLC  for office space in Suites 510, 605, 610, 650, 700, 1000, 1075 and 1099 on the 5th, 6th, 7th and 10th floors, containing approximately 84,903 square feet, in the building commonly known as Civic Center Plaza for Planning and Capital Programs personnel, IT personnel, Paratransit Services and Contracted Services. This amendment will consolidate all leased space into one lease, will add approximately 3,046 square feet to the 6th floor and will amend and extend all previous leases and amendments to provide for all to expire on December 31, 2022.  On the original 73,480 square feet, base rent began at $16.50 per square foot, has increased annually by $0.50 and will conclude in the final year of the lease at $21.50 per square foot, January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2022.  (Rent for the remaining 11,423 square feet will be $20.00 per square foot in the final year).  Funding for the space to be used by the FasTracks program was included in the 2015 Annual Program Evaluation, and will be appropriated in future year budgets.  Funding for the space to be used by the base system will be appropriated in future year budgets.

#### C. 2016 - 012 : Acquisition of Easements - Southwest Plaza Transfer Center

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors pass the attached resolution certifying easements as necessary for construction of the Southwest Plaza Transfer Center project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.

##### a. SW-Exhibit 8.5x11 Right of Way Plan-All

#### D. Approval of General Manager’s 2017 Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee that the Board of Directors approves the General Manager’s goals for 2017 as defined in the attached General Manager’s Performance Evaluation Form.

##### a. 2016-06-28 Final 2017 GM Core -Task Goals

##### b. 2017 Tactical Plan Memo to Board from General Manager

##### c. GM Tactical Plan for 2017 Goal #1 - Fiscal Sustainability Final

##### d. GM Tactical Plan for 2017 Goal #2 - Workforce Human Capital

##### e. GM Tactical Plan for 2017 Goal #3 - State of Good Repair

## III. Video Recording Project - Presented by Nate Currey

Chair Tobiassen introduced Nate Currey, Senior Manager of Public Relations and Public Information, who reviewed the equipment and the setup he was proposing in live streaming and video recording for the Board and committee meetings.  Nate introduced his assistant, Libby Winter, a Public Information Specialist on the north metro team.  Nate demonstrated the 360 aspect of the recording and passed around his phone for the committee to see how it would work.  Libby explained that the videos would be uploaded to the RTD YouTube site after editing and annotations were completed.  Chair Tobiassen suggested a pilot program so the committee and Board could review prior to full implementation.

Chair Tobiassen asked about the investment needed for this project.  Nate Currey stated that the hardware investment would be less than $1000, which would include back up equipment as well.  Director Francone asked what staff time would be required in implementing this process.  Nate Currey said there is usually someone from the communication team is in attendance but that would need to be looked at once the decision was made to move forward.  Nate added there was a transcription component as well that could help the Board Office with the minutes.

GM Genova asked about the archiving and the retention process.  Barbara McManus noted this would have to be reviewed with legal and described what was being looked at in terms of archiving on the network.  Barbara went on to say that the Board Office would be working with the Accela software team to look at placing a link on the meeting portal to access the video.  She said if this was added to the current process there are no issues but RTD’s status and legal obligations would need to be reviewed if the process changed.

Chair Tobiassen asked for consensus to move forward with a pilot starting with the committee meetings in August and as well as at the Board meeting to verify the equipment works during public participation.  A majority of head nods confirmed the pilot would move forward.  Director Solano asked if all the Directors would be notified that they would be recorded in advance.  Chair Tobiassen said all would be notified.

Chair Tobiassen thanked Nate Currey and Libby Winter for their time and efforts and said he looked forward to the pilot results.

## IV. Other Matters

GM Dave Genova gave an overview of the Employee Recognition Events that would take place starting the end of July and continue through the beginning of August.  Dave outlined that Senior Leadership would host events at each of the divisions and a barbeque would be held at 1600 Blake for staff housed at Blake and Civic Center.  Dave stated the events were listed on the Two Week Calendar and that all the Directors were encouraged to attend.

GM Genova gave an overview of the July 25th opening of the B Line and events surrounding the opening.  Dave indicated all the teams were working hard to make this happen and he hoped to see all the Directors at the Gala next Sunday the 24th.

GM Genova spoke to some upgrades and changes that are being implemented as a result of the active shooter situation Lodo experienced last week which put the Blake Building on lockdown.  Dave said Chief Tarbert is working with his team to upgrade and improve the Security Policies District wide.  The MMQ will include information about RTD promoting the FEMA active shooter training for all employees.

Director Solano asked if the Active Walking events on the 16th Street Mall could be scheduled more towards the evening.  GM Genova said these events were set up by the City and County of Denver and that RTD had no control over the scheduling.

Chair Tobiassen initiated a discussion around the “Meet in the Streets” events and mentioned he and his wife Carol went the last one.  He said it reminded him more of a carnival setting and noted many of the events do not go through the evening and seemed to be broken down by about 7:00PM.

## V. Adjourn

Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 1:08 p.m.