Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Wednesday, January 23, 2008
Page 1 of 3
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

January 23, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Wednesday, January 23, 2008 at 4:30 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board
Conference Room
****

Committee
Members Present:

Wally Pulliam, Chair; Bruce Daly, Lee Kemp, and Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Sherry Ellebracht, Scott Reed

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry

Call to Order:

****
Chair Pulliam called the meeting to order at 4:35 p.m.

I.

Federal Update – Sherry Ellebracht
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, indicated that the SAFTELU reauthorization will be addressed in the near future and the biggest thing now is
the 2008 APTA Legislative Conference in Washington, DC, March 9-11, 2008.
So far there are 5 board members planning to attend the Legislative Conference.
They are: Directors, Brohl, Busck, Daly, Kemp and McMullen.
Cal Marsella, General Manager, added that there are a couple of hot issues - we
are still working on reauthorization to get projects in that we would like to get
funded, and some Denver Union Station work that we are working and other
discrete projects.
Sherry indicated that we are asking for 87 million for West Corridor in FY09
appropriations and will be asking for other monies that were earmarked in
SAFTELU Bill that is the discretionary money we are going for on West Corridor.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Wednesday, January 23, 2008
Page 2 of 3
II.

State Legislative Issues – Jenifer Brandeberry
Director Pulliam indicated that SB 08-046 was heard this afternoon; it came out
of committee 4/3.
Jenifer Brandeberry, lobbyist for the District gave an update on the following
Bills:


HB 081146 (RTD Reporting Requirements) was introduced by
Representative Swalm. He very candidly acknowledged that what is in
the bill, we are already doing which is required by 208 process of what
we send to DRCOG. Jennifer provided him with a copy of the report at
his request. He is learning towards having bill come up and postponing it
indefinitely.



HB 08-1187 (Prohibition of Strikes Against Public Employees) there has
been some question whether it applies to us or not. Based on the
leadership and environment the bill probably won’t have long life.
Marla Lien, General Counsel indicated that if it goes away then we will
not have to address it.
Cal had one question, if we don’t strike then what? Bill Mcmullen also
wondered the same – would it automatically go into binding arbitration.
Marla indicated that there is no remedy, why would they prohibit strikes
and then not have some kind of remedy.



HB 08-1118 (Context Sensitive Solutions for Transportation Projects) was
introduced by Representative Green. Jenifer gave her some proposed
language that Marla drafted that would minimize concerns RTD has.
Senator Green was pleased and will adopt the RTD language to that.
The fix that was proposed is that on federally funding Corridors we just
do a NEFA process to avoid conflicting mandates and on non-federally
funding corridors, we would guarantee same process.

Marla discussed the Sales Tax Bills and wanted the committee to know, the two
bills would affect sales tax receipts. One is for items sold by students or
student organizations, the other would exclude the amount of federal excise tax
paid on the purchase of certain heavy machinery from the purchase price. If
they purchase and paid federal excise tax on an item, that amount would not be
included in amount on RTD sales tax.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Wednesday, January 23, 2008
Page 3 of 3

Bill McMullen expressed that he would like for the board to be involved at the
Capitol. Jennifer thought there are great opportunities for the board to interact
with legislature. Jenifer indicated that there will be a briefing for Senate
Transportation, the date is not set yet but she will let the board know so they
can go.
Lee Kemp would like to take a look at a focused type approach with the Speaker
in regards to an overall consensus of what RTD is and what we have going on,
to build relationship, something to put on radar screen for later on.
III.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

IV.

Date for Next Meeting – The next meeting date is to be determined at a later
date.

V.

Adjournment - Chair Pulliam adjourned the meeting at 5:12 p.m.

