Nov 15 2018 Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: --person and one of us with an excused absence, and David here. And we
have enough lunch, I think, to feed a small army. So if you'd like, Judy and Barbara will be
happy to hold some for you and keep it in the fridge, OK?
JUDY LUBOW: Sure. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. OK. Well, there are no other Directors that are showing up right
now. So I think for the sake of the record, Barbara, if we're ready, then I'll go ahead and start the
meeting. So let the record reflect that at 12:03 PM on Thursday, November 15, 2018, in the
Board Conference Room, the Executive Committee is convened. Present in the room in person
are our Executive Manager, Barbara McManus, our First Vice Chair, Natalie Menten, and our
General Manager and CEO, Dave Genova, together with me, Doug Tisdale, as the Chair. On the
telephone, we have Second Vice Chair Barbara Deadwyler, and we also have Treasurer Judy
Lubow. And those are the people who are now connected for purposes of this meeting.
I am advised that the recording is working, and all is well there. And for safety briefing, I
probably should at least say, remember, Barbara and Judy, if anything happens, find your nearest
exit and dial 9-1-1. And for those of us in the room, we'll fend for ourselves per the usual
instructions that we give.
That said, let me begin first with a personal note to expand upon what I said to Second Vice
Chair Deadwyler a moment ago when we were off the record. And that is, thank you very much
for your calm demeanor through Tuesday night's meeting. Thank you to all of the Board and all
of our staff for the exceptionally calm and restrained demeanor as we dealt with what I have
labeled "the night of the defused confrontation." And I did learn just last night that apparently
that group had actually conducted a-- I guess the word "caravan" is the word du jour, so a
caravan from the State Capital to the RTD offices on Tuesday night. And we got through it very
well.
That said, for this coming meeting, for the Board meeting that will be conducted on Tuesday,
November 27, First Vice Chair Menten and I have already discussed the fact that I will not be
here because I will be in Washington for the APTA Leadership Summit. In fact, I am on one of
the general panels speaking to the Transit Board members on Tuesday morning at APTA.
But I will be calling in to the meeting-- not to participate. But I made a promise to people that I
would listen to what they have to say, so I will be calling in to the Board meeting at that time.
And First Vice Chair Menten and I will be discussing special needs for security that might arise
during the course of Tuesday's meeting. And I know that Ms. McManus has already addressed
some of the issues to prepare for that. And we're looking at having a separate meeting with AGM
Meader and with General Counsel Asphaug to discuss the preparations for that meeting so as to
ensure that we have an orderly, non-disrupted, and non-disruptive meeting. So I just wanted to
get that on the record now so that people would feel safe and secure in the knowledge that we are
going to prepare for this in a responsible manner and be able to proceed.

So that was what I wanted to bring together for your attention first. Let us then turn to our
agenda. And Madam Second Vice Chair and Madam Treasurer, I don't know if you have your
electronic copies open. I'll advise you that the first thing on the agenda is the November Board
Meeting Agenda Review. And Ms. McManus and Mr. Genova have gone over this. I've looked
at it briefly as well. It is laid out for you on the agenda sheet.
And as you can see, we have some retiree awards. We have a number of matters that are on-- and
I'm sorry, I should say that we have public participation, which could be an extended public
participation. But again, we did tell them-- and it may be appropriate to ensure that Vice Chair
Menten has available to her the transcript of what we said to this group over and over that they
could speak, but that each person would have just three minutes, which is our standard protocol.
We're not going to give them any special additional time. But nonetheless, that's the policy that
we have is to give them three minutes. So we can hold them to that.
Then we'll have the committee reports, standard things. We do have-- because it is the budget,
and we have the amendment-- we have to have a public hearing on that for the 2018 Amended
Budget. And then we'll have a public hearing on the 2019 Budget. Then, as I was saying, we do
have a number of matters on Unanimous Consent. And there are only three matters that are under
recommended action. Excuse me.
The agenda notes, as it always does, the possibility for Executive Session. But I have no
information or knowledge that there is any Executive Session anticipated or planned. Ms.
McManus, Mr. Genova, do you have any information knowledge that we would need an
Executive Session?
DAVE GENOVA: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So we anticipate we won't have a need for that. All right. So there's
the agenda I've laid out. First, Mr. Genova, any comments, thoughts on the agenda? Does it work
for you?
DAVE GENOVA: I have no comments or suggested changes to the agenda.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And Ms. McManus, before I open up to the committee members, your
thoughts. Is this what you think covers everything?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, it covers everything. The only thing I'd like to say is the SLT has
not reviewed this yet. And in light of the fact that we have some folks that are missing, we may
just make some movement of some of the items into a different order as needed, which will, you
know, approve through you. I'll send this out to them later today.
DOUG TISDALE: Good.

BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't anticipate any, but-- and of course the hearings can't move, so
they'll have to be first.
DOUG TISDALE: And for the sake of the record, absent from that meeting will be in addition to
me, Director Williams will be absent. As I recall, Director Walker will be absent, because he's
going to fly out earlier. At one point, he was talking about possibly taking the red eye.
BARBARA MCMANUS: He will be there, but I don't know if he'll be there for the whole
meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. So he might be there at the start and then have to leave to get to the
airport.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. And Director Archuleta will not be there.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And-- anyone other than that that we know that either will be absent or
there for only a part of the meeting?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not that I know of at this point.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So obviously we have a quorum. That's not the issue. But the more
important issue is do we have eight, because any affirmative action, generally speaking, requires
eight votes. We have the possibility that that should all work. OK.
Having had that groundwork discussion, now let me ask the committee members-- thoughts,
issues, concerns, questions with the proposed Board Meeting agenda. I'll start with First Vice
Chair Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I will just note that I would love to have the financial amount of both the
amended budget total and 2019 budget within this adoption paragraph.
DOUG TISDALE: And I'm sorry, help me understand that again. I didn't quite follow it. I
apologize.
NATALIE MENTEN: The total fiscal note within both of these titles.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Well, that wasn't brought forward as an amendment in the
meeting when it was approved.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think that was what I was trying to get at with the one action. So that
will be my note, that that to me is a preferred way to state the budget to a member of the public,
would be to have it in that title. If we can't do that, that's fine. But that's something that I think
would be easier for the public to digest, what is the amount.
DOUG TISDALE: Sure. But having said that, we can definitely make sure that in the
presentation on the matter that we have staff address that expressly on the record so that it's

there. Because I think it's a very valid observation, and I think we need to do it. And to the extent
that there are constraints on how we handle this internally, that doesn't stop us from
communicating. So Ms. McManus, if you would make a note to ask AGM McKillop, our Chief
Financial Officer, to ensure that we have that information presented right at the top of her
discussion, I think that would be appreciated. Any other thoughts?
NATALIE MENTEN: Just that it does always read funny when it says "$1,300 million." It
would be nice if it was 1.3, whatever-DOUG TISDALE: Billion, for example.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's know a somewhat traditional method, but it's easier for the public
to read it. I've even noticed some Board Directors having trouble understanding.
DOUG TISDALE: Get confused.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, maybe we put that in parentheses so it's both in there.
DAVE GENOVA: And that would be in the resolution itself.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, going forward.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. Yeah, I like that.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's the only comment that I have regarding the entire agenda as
presented.
DOUG TISDALE: Great. Thank you very much. Second Vice Chair Deadwyler, any thoughts,
comments, observations on the agenda for the Tuesday, November 27 meeting?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: No, and I have no objections to the agenda.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, ma'am. Treasurer Lubow, any thoughts, comments,
questions on the agenda?
JUDY LUBOW: No, everything's fine to me.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. May I have a motion to approve the draft Board Agenda?
NATALIE MENTEN: Make a motion.

DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. And Director Lubow or Director Deadwyler, you want to
second that?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. Any discussion on the
motion to approve the draft Board agenda? Any further comments, Mr. Genova, from you,
relative to that?
DAVE GENOVA: No, I don't. Just a reminder also to the Executive Committee, I will also be
traveling to the APTA Leadership Conference, and Mike Meader will be in my place on Tuesday
night.
DOUG TISDALE: And I apologize. I should have mentioned that too. I was so busy focused on
just the Directors to make sure we had votes. I forgot to mention that you would also be
traveling. Thank you for that. All right, any further discussion on the motion to approve the draft
agenda? Hearing none, all those in favor, please indicate by saying aye.
NATALIE MENTEN: Aye.
JUDY LUBOW: Aye.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. The
agenda is approved. Let's give you a couple of updates. Now, you have a fat packet, because not
just the agenda but also we have presented to you the draft revised Board Operating Guidelines.
And let me give you just a little bit of history on that.
You will recall that the Board does have currently Board Operating Guidelines. You will also
recall that we discussed those in part at both the Board-only retreat on February 2, 2018, and at
the SLT retreat on March 2, 2018, the Board SLT retreat. And at that time, we talked about
various rules of engagement, guiding principles, and so forth, as we discussed for having a
productive meeting.
We promised at that time that we would go through the existing guidelines and seek to
incorporate where relevant the new matters that we had discussed seeking to the extent possible
to shorten and to make user-friendly these Board Operating Guidelines. At the same time, we
also went through the committee charters, because the committee charters we found over time
had become inconsistent with each other and not totally conformed to current law and practice.
So Ms. McManus and John McKay, from the Board Office, undertook in the first instance
pulling all of this information together. It then stalled because they gave it to me to look at to
make sure that there was an editorial consistency and that we thought we had captured
everything that we had talked about. I finally was able to conclude that. I appreciate everyone's
patient understanding as we went through that process.

We have concluded that process. These are presented to you now as an update, because we do
not intend to take action at the November meeting. We do not propose to take action at the
November meeting. The only thing we are doing now is to present to the Executive Committee
for its initial review and understanding so that we can then socialize this-- that is, distribute this
to the rest of the Board. They've already received it because they get the Executive Committee
packet too. But to send out to them this as a packet with a view toward adopting these, either at
the December meeting of the Board, if that is the Board's pleasure, or at the first meeting in
January, thus giving the new Board members also an opportunity to speak up should they have
any thoughts or comments on this.
So these are presented to you now for information and for comment-- and I'll shut up in a second
here-- for information and comment. And then, so that we send out to the Board with the full
assurance we're not taking any action now-- we want plenty of time for people to go over this-when you look at the red line, it looks like, oh, we're making lots of changes and we're making it
much longer. Then you look at the clean copy and you realize, no, we're just kind of shoring
things up and condensing some of the language and including some thoughts that we talked
about at those two retreats. All right, that's my end there. First of all, let me ask Ms. McManus, is
that generally the process that we went through as best you recall, or do you want to add
anything?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. I just want to add one item for process. If the Board-- if this
committee or the Board chooses to do it in December, then we'll need to have a vote item for the
full Board on one of the agendas in December. If we decide to move forward to do it in January,
after socializing it for a longer period of time, we could approve it in Executive Committee in
December for review and approval at the special board meeting on January 8. So I just wanted to
point out the two differences.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: I'd like to jump in there for a minute, if it's OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Absolutely, of course. Madam Second Vice Chair, the floor is yours.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: I haven't had a chance to read it thoroughly, but in my opinion, this
should not be-- any action should be taken on this until after the swearing in of new Board
members, because that's going to determine how they operate in the future. And I would
appreciate if you would postpone it until at least January, mid-January, give them a chance to get
their feet wet, and then go over it to see what makes sense-- versus it feels like we're rushing into
it, even though I know you just got it back from the Board Office with their changes. I think it's
just too close to the new Board Members coming on the Board to do this, because it will seem
like we did it behind their back. And I wouldn't like that. I wouldn't want this Board coming in as
the enemies to follow up.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And as I said, I think that's in general how most of us
who have had a chance to look at this already have been thinking, is that we would put it into
January so that the new Board would have a chance. That said, I didn't want the outgoing Board
Members to feel that we were somehow foreclosing them from having the ability to weigh in on

it, because, Barbara, let's face it, we value your experience. So the one thing that we can do is
socialize it to the full Board that we currently have.
And, by the way, all of the new members are receiving all of the packets now, starting as of last
week. They've been getting all the packets, so they have this. And we can tell them that the plan
is to go forward in January with approval. And so they should go ahead and take some time to
look at it. So thank you for that thought. Director Lubow, any thoughts before I go to First Vice
Chair Menten, because I want to give her a chance to finish her lunch, if nothing else.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes I'll take the floor, except I'm not there. So I'll take the air, I guess. You
know, I wanted to thank everybody for their work, because clearly people have put in a lot of
work on this. I was frankly very not happy when I read these documents, and there's a history as
to why I'm not happy that some people, like Doug Tisdale, may not know.
But, you know, I am focusing in at the moment on the guidelines that really stress where we
should have high policy discussion. We're not management. You know, there's been a whole
different interpretation on the part of some Board members, including myself. I am not one truly
who believes that we don't belong in the weeds, that my constituents expect me to look and see if
there are any problems that might involve a wrong use of money, a foolish use of money, that
might involve lack of due diligence.
And we don't have an Inspector General. I feel that in a sense the Board is an Inspector General.
And I've always operated that way, that if I need to look at details because that's where I'm going
to see if there's a problem, then I want to look at those details. And so that's the history, that
some of us don't just think, well, we only do high policy. We don't do management. I mean, to
me, in a way, they're just terms.
And I feel like the document that was created, it comes down squarely on one side, which is only
my management, don't go into the weeds. That's not how I've ever operated. And I just feel like,
one, it would be better to leave it alone, that we don't have problems. So if you don't have
problems, don't fix it. And the other thing is, even if we considered that there are problems and it
should be changed-- which, frankly, I don't-- then I think it should be a group of people, a group
of Board members, who have different interpretations that'll come up with something that, in my
opinion, would be more inclusive than these documents.
And the other thing that I wanted to say is that I felt like there were suggestions for changes that
I don't know where they came from. Like, one of them was, I think-- this is just one example. Oh
yeah, I for one am probably the only person maybe in the history of RTD who has used the
statutory provision that says you can get three Board members to sign on for something, and as
long as they bring the attention of the Board Manager and the Chair, they can get on the agenda.
Well, now, they've got to be added. You have to say the money. And you have to say the Chair-not the Chair. I can't remember, but whatever. You have to say what goals they relate to. That's
not in the statutes.

And to me, that section is an incredibly important section that says you can go around-- you can
go around the hierarchy if it's not working. That's what it's for. And so I don't want somebody
changing it. And it's like, who put that in? I mean, I wouldn't have put it in.
And I just feel there are too many examples of that that I'm not happy with. I'm not happy with
the document. I'm really not-- which is not to say that I begrudge the work. I appreciate the work
and the sincerity that was put in it. But I don't like the results, and I have to say that. And my
sense is there are others on the Executive Committee that feel somewhat the same way and that
this is not ready for prime time, in my opinion. And I'm sorry to say that, again, because I know
people have put in a lot of work. OK, that's it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you for that, because I've been looking at Ms. McManus here
during your discussion, and I did not think that we anywhere changed or amended that process,
because that's part of the bylaws that says three Directors can-- and in the act that says three
Directors can bring a matter before the full Board. And there was certainly no intention or
understanding on my part-- and you may have read these more closely than I did, I guess-- that
there would be any change to that. So we can look at it, but I definitely appreciate the thought.
JUDY LUBOW: There is a change. Yes. Yes, yes, there is a change. And I may be the only one
who's seen it, because I think I've been the only one who's ever used it.
DOUG TISDALE: No. And I appreciate that. And let me do this. Number one, you are
emphasizing the point that Second Vice Chair Deadwyler already brought up, which is, let us put
this into January to allow everyone to have a full opportunity to review and consider. And let us
look to make sure that there isn't any inadvertant change or attempted change of either the RTD
Act or the bylaws, because certainly that was not the intent. So let's make sure that we did not
through inadvertence create that, because your point is, from my perspective, extremely well
taken.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Could you let me know where you're seeing the changes you're
speaking of?
JUDY LUBOW: OK, I'll do that. But in addition, I really do think that this needs additional
points of view looking at it, especially about the issue of the whole deal about whether Board
should be policy and/or management and/or [INAUDIBLE]. I mean, that's a huge philosophical
as well as legal difference that exists on the Board in terms of what people feel their job is.
DOUG TISDALE: No. And again, that's why I believe making sure that the entire Board has the
opportunity to look at this. This is just-- you'll note, it's all marked "draft." And actually the
watermarks aren't as clear as I'd like on some of these. But generally speaking, everything you
see is clearly marked "draft" and is something that the entire Board needs to look at, consider,
take time, comment on, and then, and only then, would we take action.

So I think we're looking at the possibility that this would be presented to the new Executive
Committee in January, if there is to be any action. And then the full Board could take action in
January or in February. There is no burning need for this. There is simply a need for this. So it is
important but not urgent.
JUDY LUBOW: Got it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: You're welcome. Director Menten, your thoughts.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I'll speak to one of the items that Director Lubow mentioned, and
that would be that I think when we were looking at the various committees-- and right now I'm
speaking of, because we've really got two different documents that we're talking about, so that's
an easy way to confuse things. And that is why myself, I'll definitely want more time with a
couple different printouts of this so that I can lay them next to one another. And I've done a lot of
marking on one doc on my thumb drive and probably print that.
But you'll see under "approval process" within the revised committee charters that one of the
items marked in red that seems to flow through, I think, all of these committees, the item brought
forward by three or more members and provided to the Executive Manager by Wednesday,
should have General Manager goals and financial impact.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, [INAUDIBLE]. Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's what Judy is referring to, or Director Lubow, in that case. And I
think-- and this is where I really need to have these, for me, I've got to have a farm-style table,
conference table, so I can lay these out literally without flipping back and forth in a PDF for me.
So that's my own little issue that I'll deal with. But I know that that is one item that she's
referring to.
DOUG TISDALE: And can I just footnote on that to make it clear for the others who may not
have it. And you're right, there is a statement there, and I had not paid attention to this. This
item-- I'm sorry, reading from the proposed additional language, "this item must include all
required elements of a recommended action including any corresponding general manager goals
and financial impact." I think that's what Director Lubow was talking about, and I did not give
that any particular attention at the time, and we can ask Ms. McManus to comment on that. But I
see where she's coming from in terms of looking at that. So please, go on.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Then I think one of the committees in here-- and this is, again, where
I need to just have it literally physically laid out for me, I'll do that on my own-- is that in one of
these, an item brought forward by three Board Directors and presented to the Board Executive
Manager also must have the approval of the Board Chair. But I don't remember 100%, as it was
late hours reading all through these, and I think one of them is different, that it has also that
requirement whereas all the rest are simply stating three Board Directors provided by
Wednesday to the Board Office Executive Manager.

BARBARA MCMANUS: I'll have to look at the bylaws. I think the bylaws does say the Chair,
and so maybe that was not uniform between all of them. I believe that language has always been
in there.
NATALIE MENTEN: So if I look at-JUDY LUBOW: I don't think it has to be approved by the Chair. I think it has to be shown to
him, just like it has to be shown to the Manager.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't think it says approved.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. Yes, that's my understanding. It's not-- the Chair does not have a veto
right on any of that stuff. It just is a notice function, so there is notice. And if it does-- and that's
why we wanted to send these out for everyone to look at.
NATALIE MENTEN: I understand. So what I'm wondering is, in creating all of these, was there
some sort of a spreadsheet that said all the different committees, maybe on the left with a title,
and then approval process, all these different pieces, components? Were there check marks that
each one was-BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, they all should be consistent. I know three sets of eyes looked at
it, so if we've missed a couple of things, I apologize. We can go back and look at that. But they
should be consistent across all committees.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I think we have obvious consensus that we're all going to be putting
some more time into this. And that's-- I'm speaking of the committee charters. So I'm going to
just leave it at that, that I need to spend some more time with it myself, make it a little bit easier
for me to see all of those different committees laid out. Are they all consistent? Was it a 3:00
AM thing, where I thought I saw the Board Chair had some sort of level of power in one
instance, not present in all the rest.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It should not have been.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then I'll speak to the separate document, which is the document
from Rolf. I'm uncomfortable with some of the items in here. And I've spoken to Rolf about it.
DOUG TISDALE: Excuse me, which-- because we have two memos from Rolf. One is the
general procedures, and then one is the confidentiality memo.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. So he presented a document to us a couple months ago that I think
had to deal more with the confidentiality. So the guidelines part is a brand new document that,
what has been stated, is we have never had that before. The confidentiality I just-- it's unfortunate
when one issue sticks in my mind. And that had to do with the process from the 2015 issue,
where we were taking the General Manager contract through a process. We had all signed
confidentiality agreements, which to me meant when we were interviewing individuals and their

jobs were why we had confidentiality. We didn't want somebody out in Canada or Maryland
having a risk to their position.
But at some point in time, that confidentiality ended. It was not forever. And when I read
something like what Rolf is presenting, that's what instantly comes to my mind. Now, I don't
have a problem creating something a little more strict on a board member having financial gain.
That, to me, is a very clear problem if somebody used that. And I don't know if we've ever had
an instance.
I'll be very frank, though. We had actually one Board Director I was concerned about, no longer
on the Board. Wasn't on the Board in my term at all. But he had, and has, still a position with a
bus manufacturing firm, very large one. And I'll just-- have we had any instance of a current or
former Board Director that crossed a line on profiting from closed door discussions?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Not to my knowledge.
DAVE GENOVA: Not to my knowledge.
DOUG TISDALE: Certainly not to my knowledge.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I could check with Rolf. I mean, he would have been involved in any
of those allegations, I'll call them.
DOUG TISDALE: And let me just footnote for the benefit of those on the phone, the memo that
I think you're specifically addressing is in packet page 19. And it's the August 22, 2018, memo to
Board and SLT from General Counsel labelled "Requirement to Keep Executive Session Matters
Confidential." And that's packet page 19. I just wanted to footnote so they'd know what we were
talking about. Please go on ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you, because yes, it can be a little bit confusing, especially if you
flip through a PDF where unless you've got it open in two windows, it's a little bit hard to-- so
I'm wondering what generated-- what generated this Executive Session confidential issue?
DAVE GENOVA: Is that packet page 19? I'm sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So my question, Barbara and Judy, was what generated the
Executive Session's confidentiality issue? Because the one I'm really speaking of was from some
time ago, but also somewhat recently-- all the same subject matter, though.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Are you asking me?
NATALIE MENTEN: No. I'm just making sure you knew about that.
DOUG TISDALE: Making sure you heard the question. What I'll tell you that I know, relative to
this August 22 memo, is that Rolf, at my request-- because I asked the question-- is there any
clear authority relative to the requirement to keep Executive Session matters confidential? And I

asked that because we were looking at the possibility of Executive Session, and I wanted to make
sure that we would feel comfortable with that, based upon my own personal history, which had
two parts. Number one, when I was on the Cherry Hills Village City Council, both as a
councilman and then as mayor, because I wasn't sure that there was statutory language, I asked
that each member understand that when voting to go into Executive Session they understood and
acknowledged that the matters discussed were confidential.
I'm sorry. I shouldn't say matters discussed. The topic, of course, is always disclosed. It's the
specific comments by any individual that would be kept confidential. But the topic, of course, is
disclosed. And so we, in Cherry Hills Village, just said, all right. We all agree and we
acknowledge that.
And that was because my late wife, when she was a city attorney, was involved in a case that one
of the council members, immediately following Executive Session, would typically call a news
conference and tell everyone what was said-- not just the subject matter, but what was said in the
Executive Session. And that caused a lot of concern there.
And so we finally found out that specifically Roberts does address it and says, it's confidential.
So I said, OK, fine-- because we couldn't find a specific statute, as I recall, or a specific case that
dealt with it. And so we said, fine, what is the rule, just so that everybody has the information.
That was the reason.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, because it looks threatening to me. It looks threatening to me.
There is discussion of felony. There is discussion of misdemeanor. Those are problems for me.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, hopefully not. No, I mean-NATALIE MENTEN: Well, if we're discussing a safety measure, that's one thing. That's very
clear. Negotiations, there is a whole wide spectrum of what those things-- at the end of the day,
I'm going to-- although, it can sound like words-- look out for the constituents. And if the
constituents need to know something-- I'm uncomfortable with the document.
There was also parts-- and I don't know, really, without digging up Rolf's August thing, which I
did not sign-- I don't know if that's what was meant to happen with that, but I did not sign it and
not going to sign it. It was about talking to the press. Now, I don't really know if those go hand in
hand. We have this. I think they probably do.
DOUG TISDALE: Say again.
NATALIE MENTEN: That the document that Rolf circulated a couple of months ago had this
language in it regarding talking to the press. And I brought that up with Rolf about how my
discomfort with that in limiting being able to talk to the press, I don't think I saw that in here. But
I don't know if they're tied together.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, yeah, and I don't know that they are.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, the only thing that we're asking for you to review is what's here.
So maybe based on your conversation, that was taken out. I don't know. I didn't have that
discussion with him, and I didn't know you had a sidebar.
DOUG TISDALE: And I will tell you that there could be philosophical differences on these too,
and definitely there's obviously-- there is always room for philosophical differences, and that
goes back even to Treasurer Lubow's comment about policy versus management. And as I said,
there's always room for policy differences and for people to express themselves on that.
Relative to some of this, it was just generally intended to do one thing, and that is to say, when
we have an Executive Session, purporting to quote someone from the Executive Session is what
is prohibited. Talking about the fact that there was an Executive Session, talking about what the
topic is, that's absolutely open. And there are lots of other avenues in terms of in open session
getting someone to say in effect what they said in Executive Session. And you can talk to
anybody, including the press, all day long about that. I mean, there's no problem there.
And one thing that I wanted to address to get back to the overall package to keep in everyone's
mind, not so much the charters-- and we do understand some of the stuff that needs to be looked
at and potentially corrected if there are inconsistencies here. And that's why this will go into
January and possibly February, allowing everyone a full review.
But recognize this. The reason we're looking at this-- and if you look at the old original policy,
you'll see that it says, every January the Board will adopt this. And we haven't done that for the
past couple of years. And the reason the policy said every January we'll have to do this is
because the state auditor, when they audited the RTD, said, you're not complying with the law.
You need to implement these annually, and you have not done that.
So that's why we're now finally waking up and saying, hey, we have to do this annually per the
law and per our own policy that we adopted a number of years back when we first created the
Board Operating Guidelines, where we said, every January we'll do it. That's why I said, we need
to get this out to people in November. They can look at it, talk about it in December, and then we
can take action in January.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I think I've gotten my comments.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you. We appreciate that. And I think this really helps, because,
number one, it gives every member of the Executive Committee a chance to comment on the
process and the product and to understand that we're not trying to get anything approved now.
We're just trying to make sure we have an understanding and we socialize. We can resubmit this
packet to the full board with a comment that there may be a couple of things in there that got in
that still need to be adjusted, based upon comments we've made, and based upon comments that
will be made throughout the month of December and into January, and that we're not anticipating
any action until January at the earliest. Yes, ma'am?
NATALIE MENTEN: One other item is that the Executive Sessions-- has there been some
evidence that somebody was on a conference call during an Executive Session and information

was shared? Because that is a change in here. It was a change that-- stating, I believe, we never
did allow, then we started to allow it, somebody chiming in during Executive Session, and now
we're going back to no.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's right. I think the idea-- and this is what General Counsel told
me, was there is no way of knowing when you have an Executive Session and someone is on the
phone that there isn't another or a number of other persons in the room with them, thus violating
the confidentiality. Because one of the requirements on the Executive Session is to enumerate on
the separate tape-- because remember, we always have a separate tape for those-- on the separate
tape to indicate who is in the room, who's present. And I know, for example, because I chair the
Colorado State Board of Psychotherapists at DORA, and we have Executive Sessions at every
meeting. And I have to go through and identify every single person in the room for the tape,
because then when the court reviews that, should a challenge be raised, as any case that we
adjudicate, we have to know who was present in the room. If it's on the phone, I can have
someone's word for it, but I don't know. Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So it also was also how we operated in Executive Session is we did
not use the dial-in line. We have to actually call out to a person. There is no ability to call out to
multiple people. And over time, it has made Directors very upset that one person can dial in, but
more than one can't. And so that was the reason that that changed, not that we were worried
about someone being on the overall bridge line, because we don't use the bridge line for
Executive Sessions. It was that it was not equitable. And we had no ability to make it equitable to
every Director that wanted to dial in for Executive Session. So I just wanted to clarify that too,
because a lot of some of these changes came from Director comments over time.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Well, that was, I think, a very helpful discussion. Any other
comments before we close off discussion on this?
JUDY LUBOW: I have one.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am.
JUDY LUBOW: It has to do with the confidentiality memo.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am.
JUDY LUBOW: And I found it, frankly, confusing because I had to read it a couple of times to
realize that it looked like it was saying that you have to be confidential so that if you were going
to be double-dealing or doing other things, that's the criminal violation, not telling the secret. So
that's what it seems like. And so I really would like to know, are there any cases actual cases,
where there is some kind of punishment, criminal or civil, for violating confidentiality of an
Executive Session?

DOUG TISDALE: My understanding, just to respond to that from my view, is that the source
that we're looking at is Roberts, and that Roberts says that the body may impose sanctions. I
don't know that-- and I know certainly Roberts doesn't say that it constitutes a crime or even a
civil offense. And so that's not the issue. But I think that if someone were to violate
confidentiality in other respects and, as you indicate, for example, derive pecuniary benefit or
gain, that obviously that comes under the opportunity for law enforcement.
So anyway, all of those are further fodder for thought and comment as we look at this and as we
go forward with a view toward approving these in January as our policy requires, as the state
auditor required, or potentially February, which I think is the substantive equivalent of January if
we are moving forward, then I think we're in good position. And as Second Vice Chair
Deadwyler pointed out, it gives the new Board an opportunity to chime in.
JUDY LUBOW: I appreciate that, and I just wanted to say, though, that the memo as written, if
you don't read it very carefully, it implies that if people divulge secrets that there is some
potential for criminal and civil liability. And it's not for the divulging of the secrets, it's for the
double-dealing [INAUDIBLE]. It was very confusing to me, and I'm concerned about it.
DOUG TISDALE: No, that's a good comment, and that's one of the things we can talk about. I
think that's fine.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And besides, counselor, you know how these lawyers write. OK.
JUDY LUBOW: No comment.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. So let's move on, then, to Montbello Property Unsolicited Proposal.
Mr. Genova, I think this is your agenda item.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a follow-up from the committee meeting earlier in
the week, where we let the Board know that we received an unsolicited proposal. We went to the
Board for the reason of receiving some input from the Board on direction. We are going to
proceed with doing some analysis regarding the property and in various options and then come
back and report back to the Board on that before we follow any next steps in those processes. So
I just wanted to make sure that the Executive Committee was aware of that and that's how we'll
proceed.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that. Let me just ask the question, because I have a 1 o'clock hard
stop, because I need to get downstairs to speak to the Leadership Academy. We did not discuss
during the course of the board meeting, or the committee meeting-- I thought it really wasn't
appropriate given the circumstances. But in this context, can you give us, please, A, the location,
B, the size, and C, the amount of the offer so we at least have some sense of what is it that we're
talking about.

DAVE GENOVA: I did not-- I apologize, I did not bring those specifics in. The property is
located north of I-70 and west-- I'm sorry, east of Peoria in the Montbello neighborhood. It's a
former Park -n- Ride, that we move those transit services to 38th and Peoria Station when we
opened the combination of the R Line and the A Line. We still have some bus routes that run
through that area. I believe the parcel is a little bigger than an acre, 1.3 acres, and the appraisal, I
want to say, was in the neighborhood of around $300,000 or so. But let me make sure I have the
accurate information on location, size, and the appraisal amount. And I will include that in my
Friday memo this week.
DOUG TISDALE: Good. And again, it's not meant to be a pop quiz. It's meant to be that I think
that, at least, puts into perspective what it is that we're talking about. Because there were some
comments, well, gosh, is it really worth anything and what's going to happen, and so forth.
Because one of the things that we have addressed, and I think it's appropriate to share with the
committee here, is in terms of who is actually going to require, and would there be any deed
restrictions that the RTD, were it to do a sale as opposed to a lease, that would say, well, yeah,
you say you want to do this, you can have a neighborhood park, and then we find out they sell it
to the City and County of Denver and the City and County of Denver approves a $20 million
commercial development on the one acre parcel that's a 12-story building. And then we feel kind
of snookered.
So that's the reason for it. I mean, when we look at these things, it's always important to say, the
person who's standing in front of us may be a wonderful person and it's a great idea, but they
actually have an ulterior motive and a person standing behind them, and so forth. Not to imply
by any stretch of the imagination that such is the case here, but it's our job to deal in those
various alternatives. Thank you for the record. Are there other-- I'm sorry, yes, please, Director-yeah, and I should ask the others on the phone too. Madam Vice Chair.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. So just description, because we can't get the address, because it is a
closed lot, would be Peoria and Albrook Drive.
DOUG TISDALE: Albrook?
NATALIE MENTEN: Drive. And it is just a little east behind-- there's a Taco Bell, and I seem to
recall 1.38, but that could be wrong, acres. But I am, just because of this mapping on here, the
entire parcel is vacant right now. Is that correct? We're not owning the land underneath Taco Bell
or Del Taco, actually, whatever it is.
DAVE GENOVA: That's my understanding, Director.
NATALIE MENTEN: Del Taco, I'm sorry.
DAVE GENOVA: That we just own the property where the former Park -n- Ride sat, or
occupied.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right.

DOUG TISDALE: OK, on the telephone, Madam Second Vice Chair, any questions?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: No questions, but I am familiar with that area when you're talking
about Albrook, where that parking lot is. It has been a sore thumb for simply move the parking
lot out of there for a lot of unattractive activity that goes on in that area. So I'm glad that-- I'm not
saying that we should purchase the land, but I'm glad to see that there is interest in the land to see
if they can't do something with it. My only comments.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you much. We appreciate that. Madam Treasurer, any comments, any
thoughts, questions?
JUDY LUBOW: No, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And Madam First Vice Chair, you had another thought.
NATALIE MENTEN: Regarding this property, so we've been given a couple items. Who is the
person, who's the entity approaching us?
DAVE GENOVA: The Montbello Organizing Committee is, as I understand it right now.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I got confused on that, then, the other night. I thought it was a
developer, and I don't think the Montbello Organizing Group is a developer.
DAVE GENOVA: No. But they are working with-- they are working with a developer-type
organization as well that's been assisting them and working with them.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: That sounds really suspect.
DOUG TISDALE: So as I say, there is a lot more information. And the reason it came up was,
rather than simply saying, oh, well, this is on a list called excess property, somebody walks in
with an appraisal and a check, we are duty bound to sell it. And the response is, no, I think we're
duty bound to look at it.
NATALIE MENTEN: So then the other night, Henry mentioned-- Henry Stopplecamp-- I'm
trying to get better at that-- Assistant Manager of Capital Projects, for our recording, mentioned
there will be some other properties coming up that may-- we've got a very limited, very, very
limited list, that Susan Altes presents as, here's properties that we're putting on the market. It
sounded like there's some that were not on that list that will be now moving to that list. Is that
correct, Dave?
DAVE GENOVA: That's my understanding. I believe that we have a number of very small
remnants and things like that that probably standing on their own, probably don't have a lot of
value. But to an adjacent property owner, they could be very interested in picking up those
pieces. But, you know, we'll learn more about that as that work comes forward. The priority for
the Real Estate Group right now and the Real Property Group is making sure that we're getting
all the work done for all the corridors that we're doing all the build-outs on and then all the

transfers that we need to do. It's an awful lot of work, as you can imagine, just doing all the
corridor related real estate.
So that's their priority one. And then as we get these other issues in, then we kind of slot them in
as they're prioritized. I will add that I've had a lot of inquiries from elected officials, Denver City
Council people, the Denver Mayor's Chief of Staff, about what's happening with this parcel,
because I think they're getting the same folks that are interested in the parcel have been asking
them questions as well. So I've responded that we've received an unsolicited proposal, we're
going through our process, we'll be notifying the board, which we did, for their input and
direction, and then we will move accordingly.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Just so you know, so there's quite a bit of interest.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. And to the extent that any of those individuals do not have my cell
number, please feel free to give them my cell telephone number, just to make sure that they feel
that they can call me at any time. Yes?
NATALIE MENTEN: I know that you are trying to get out the door, but one last item is with
ADAPT. Yes, we've said we'd give them three minutes each or whoever is interested, what are
we doing on communication with the five or six items that they had on their list?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, that's an excellent point, because I think you have already seen that we
did open up a General Managers Report. There is a GMR open.
NATALIE MENTEN: I saw that, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: And that it's going to the Civil Rights Committee, as I said, because we had
already had that communication from them, had brought it up to the Civil Rights Committee.
And we want Civil Rights Committee to pursue this. There is a GMR. There will be a response.
And I just give you that as background before asking Mr. Genova to fill in.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. So we talked about it at Senior Leadership Team yesterday. And I really
felt an urgency around having some kind of a response, or at least where RTD is in perspective
to the things that were on the information that we received. So we opened a GMR, we put a time
frame to, I think, have it done-BARBARA MCMANUS: Next Wednesday.
DAVE GENOVA: --next Wednesday, so it would be done before the board meeting. And then
we could distribute that to the Board, so the full Board would be aware of, if there was a
comment about where we are in working with Uber and Lyft, we would say, here's where we are
with that. Because I think there's a misconception there that-- because we saw some tweets that
said RTD is talking to Uber and Lyft on Tuesday night, the night of the committee.

So I think there's some misconception there. And then I think there's some other things that we
could possibly address in terms of informing the board and the community about how much we
do budget and how much the expenditures are around Access-a-Ride, and so that we could just
put some information around some of the things that were mentioned in that letter. So our goal is
to have that to the full Board and then actually get to the key people at ADAPT before the board
meeting, so if that might help in any way, shape, or form with, number one, their comments, and
number two, that the Board has that information so we are informed.
NATALIE MENTEN: Who is the official spokesperson for ADAPT?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, as best we think it was predominantly the woman that-BARBARA MCMANUS: Dawn Russell.
DAVE GENOVA: Dawn Russell, that Chair Tisdale was primarily talking to.
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's who we opened up the GMR for. She was the spokesperson
that day. She's the woman who gave her information to me. So if anybody else needs to be
added, she has the information so she can socialize it to anyone else in her group.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you. That's all my questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Any other other matters from anyone, anyone on the phone?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: No.
JUDY LUBOW: No, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. And Vice Chair, you've indicated
nothing else. Anything else from Executive Manager Mr. Genova? Mr. Genova, you, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Just one quick item. I want to let the Executive Committee know, we had the
North Metro Elected Officials meeting this morning, because at the last meeting there was a
concern that maybe we weren't communicating well. I just want to let the Executive Committee
know that there were two electeds that showed up at today's meeting-- the mayor, Mayor Daniel
Dick, and a City Councilperson, David Beakham from Westminster. And other than that, there
was Director Hoy, Directors-elect Buzek and Whitmore myself, Chuck Culig, Lisa Trujillo,
Michael Ford, Dave Jensen, and the project team.
And you know, we gave a very nice briefing, but I just wanted to let the Board know that we had
a very good contingency from RTD, but we were somewhat disappointed by the turnout of the
electeds and who the meeting is for, especially on how we were critiqued after the last one.
DOUG TISDALE: So the student to faculty ratio was one to five-- five faculty for one student.
That's great. That's excellent. All right. Any other other matters to come before the board? Thank
you very much for that, General Manager, we appreciate it.

Any other other matters? Hearing none, then as of 1:08 PM, we will stand adjourned.

