2024-07-25
Executive Committee
Good afternoon, everyone. The Thursday, July 25, executive committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 12:02 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this morning
or this afternoon to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and
our audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with unofficial minutes of the meetings, are
posted as soon as practicable to the board's website. During today's meeting we are also providing
communication access real time translation, also known as CART.
Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office using the email
address Rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can
be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting
in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I will now call for the roll of our committee members. First, Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair, Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman is out on an excused absence. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson. I am present. That's four committee members present with
one absent. I see for the sake of the record, we are also joined by Director Tisdale, Director Dishell, and
Director Lewis. Thank you for joining us, directors.
I will now move to the public comment section of our agenda. This is opening up public comment to anyone
who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the
current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and if you have not already done so, you
will either raise your virtual hand on Zoom or press star 9 if dialed in on your phone. During this time, the
committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, you are welcome to contact the Board
Office at the RTD Board Office email address of rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com If you would like to be
contacted regarding your comments.
Before proceeding with instructions for public comment further, I will-- not seeing any hands raised. But Mr.
Kroll, do you see any hand raised at this time?
JACK KROLL: Joe Davidson, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this time, there
is no one present who has raised their hand in desire of providing public comment.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, for confirming that. Also, for the sake of the record, Mr.
Kroll, can you please comment as to whether any emailed comments were received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Davidson, there were no emailed comments prior to this meeting today.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. With that being noted and seeing no participants in the queue, we
will close the public comment period at this time. We'll now move to recommended actions. There are two
recommended actions this afternoon.
As a reminder for the committee, staff, and anyone watching and/or listening to this meeting, any action
item that is passed by the Executive Committee, even if the vote is unanimous, will be included on the
board agenda under recommended actions so that the full Board will have the opportunity to discuss the
measure presented.
The first action under consideration by the executive committee this afternoon is for item A, which is the
bylaw amendment to allow the chair to appoint committee members in certain circumstances. This is for
the board to amend Article 6, Section 1a, to empower the chair of the board to make certain committee
appointments. Do we have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movement as Catlin and the second as Guissinger. Thank you very much. At
this time, I will open up for mr Jack Kroll, our Executive Manager of the Board Office, to see if there's
anything he would like to present on this matter pursuant to our discussion item at our last executive
committee. Mr. Kroll, please.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. I will be quick here. You all discussed this last month as a body.
And you had three areas where-- well, there were three subsequent areas where discussions were had
and/or changes made. The first is that the word committee was inserted here.
This is just to simply reemphasize that it's a committee vacancy arising, not necessarily a vacancy on the
board. The chair of the board-- this was a change Director Guzman had asked for-- chair of the board shall
appoint. The language chair of was not-- or excuse me, of the board was not included in last month's
language.
And then there was some significant debate and input provided as to whether the word shall should be
changed to may. Where that conversation landed was back with, shall. Director Ruscha had been one of
the directors who raised this concern. And I followed up with her and she had preference for shall. I circled
back with Chair Davidson. He also concurred with that. So that word is shall and hasn't changed.
Otherwise, this is pretty straightforward and will be a nice, effective administrative tool for the board if
approved by 10 affirmative votes next week to better manage its affairs and ensure that committees are
meeting as scheduled, as well as to ensure new board members who come on via the appointment process
and not the election process, are quickly able to get into a committee and represent their constituents
accordingly.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. Much appreciated. And thank you to everybody who
participated in the discussion last month on this. Is there any further discussion, from committee members
or from board members present, on this recommended action? All right, seeing none. Thank you, Mr. Kroll,
to you and your team for helping make that happen to facilitate that discussion and identifying this as an
opportunity. This is another improvement that we're making to the bylaws.
I'll go ahead and ask, are there any no votes on the action? OK, seeing none, that will pass with four aye
votes and zero no votes and one being absent. And so it shall be. All right, we'll move on to our next
recommended action-- item B. This is for the property station naming policies.
This is for the board of directors to adopt the attached honorary property and station naming policy,
procedures, and naming review rubric. There is a slight error that I'll note in how this item was presented in
the description of the board's recommended action. It should have read that it is recommended for the
board to approve both the property and station naming policy, as well as the honorary property and station
naming policy procedures and naming review rubric.
As such, do we have a motion to approve both the property station naming policy in addition to the honorary
property and station naming policy procedures and naming review rubric?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think I heard the movement as treasurer Bouquet. It did cut out a little bit there. But I
did hear that. And then I heard the second as Guissinger. Thank you very much. At this time, first of all,
before handing off the floor again, I would just like to thank everybody who worked on this, director's Ruscha
and Sloan worked on this with Mr. Kroll and his team, Mr. Davies, Ms. Johnson, Ms. Snyder. A lot of people
have touched this and collaborated on this. And thank you very much for doing that and helping us find a
structured approach to station naming requests. Really, really appreciate the work that was done offline to
prepare this for today, not to mention the discussion items we've had leading up to this, where a lot of
feedback has been solicited by not just this committee, but all directors and provided. So thank you.
And with that being said, I'll hand off again to Mr. Kroll to please present the item.
JACK KROLL: Great. I will-- since it's been a long time since, relatively long time since you've all seen this,
I just want to recap what the ask was of the group that worked on this. So back in early January of this year,
you all provided direction to the board office to work with staff and a couple of directors, those being Director
Sloan and Ruscha, to develop two things.
One is an overarching property and station naming policy. The second is your honorary and property-honorary property and station naming policy procedures and rubric. This is because there's really two ways
to look at, or there's two layers to what we're proposing here. First is your overarching property and station
naming policy. And then subsequent to that is your honorary property and station naming policy.
That's because there is a primary effort, primary name of a station or property needs to remain the
wayfinding name. And so the group met several times. We presented back in April to the executive
committee and to the full board and then were asked at that point to make a few changes and come back
as soon as we could to bring those changes forward.

Those changes, most notably, were to bring forward a rubric in addition to what we had already presented.
There was strong interest from board members in seeing a rubric attached to this. Additionally, there was
some information and input from Director Lewis, who had rightly pointed out that the way we had initially
proposed this, we might put ourselves in a position where we're sort of perpetually reviewing applications
to rename a property or station-- or excuse me-- add a secondary honorary name to a property or station.
And so we believe we've addressed all of those concerns. We've made a few other tweaks. And now we're
bringing it back for review. I would like to just walk everyone through the documents real quick. I don't want
to save questions to the end. I think if you have a question as we go along, please raise it. And we'll try and
move through these as quickly as we can here.
So starting with the overarching policy, this is, again, an amalgamation of three actions that the board
previously took in 1994, 2003, and 2011, and updated based off of the work that we did. But for the most
part, what you're seeing here is a reflection of what was previously acted upon by the board.
There was never a single document that coalesced all of these things or all three of those actions. So we've
done that. And then we've made some updates along the way. Most notably, we added a section here for
honorary property names. Again, honorary property names or station names are secondary to the primary
wayfinding name. As you may recall, we did a lot of outreach to other organizations to get their input. And
one of the things that was paramount in what we heard back from them, as well as from our staff, is that
wayfinding remained the primary focus of any station name, and that an honorary name be a secondary
name.
Sponsorships, there's been a good amount of conversation around how sponsorships interact with honorary
names. And at this point, we're proposing a system that is effectively mutually exclusive. So what this means
is that if there is a station that comes into an honorary secondary name, it would not be eligible for a
corporate sponsorship. And the same is true in reverse.
If there's a station or property that has received a corporate sponsorship, it would not be eligible, during the
time frame of that sponsorship, for an honorary property name.
In the board report, the final thing I'll say on this note, in the board report, the group that worked on this did
recommend three areas of potential additional inquiry. And one of those was to consider, based on the
input we've received both from staff and the group that was working on this, whether it would be prudent to
continue to have the practice of having corporate sponsorships as an option for our properties and station.
However, we're not weighing in on that. We're just saying that it might be worthwhile for the board to look
at that further.
One thing that's important to note on this, too, in the previous actions the board took in, I think it was the
2011 action, there was a note that the name change cost would need to be absorbed by whomever is
proposing that name change. But that is not to apply to an honorary or secondary name added to a station
or property.
Where this idea initially came from is, let's say, for example, RTD partnered and did outreach in the initial
buildout of a line and worked with the local municipality to set a name for a station. Well, four or five years
go down the line and that local municipality thinks we should actually change this wayfinding name or the
station name, the primary name, to something else. Well, that was where RTD had previously
contemplated, as has this board, that you would work with that entity to provide the cost of changing the
name.

However, we have very clearly and explicitly stated here that does not apply to an honorary or secondary
name. We did discuss that at length. And we felt as though putting the cost onus on the proposers-- the
applicants for an honorary or secondary name might impose too great of a barrier. So that's why that was
not included there.
And then the last thing I'll note here is the scope. This is applying to your transit stations, park and rides,
transfer centers, and other major passenger facilities, maintenance facilities and administrative buildings.
This is not getting into the granular, how do we rename a bus stop? That's not something the board is
tasked with. That's not something the board is doing here. It is looking at big facilities, major facilities only
in this policy.
So that's the overarching policy. And I'll maybe stop there and see if there's any questions before we move
into the policy for honorary and secondary names.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. I appreciate that walkthrough. Very helpful as both a refresh and
what's changed in where we've settled. Are there any questions on that first portion there from directors?
All right, seeing none, Mr. Kroll, please go ahead and proceed.
JACK KROLL: So again, this is your honorary property and station naming policy as proposed. This top
part is pretty self-explanatory. But I want to highlight here that we've explicitly stated that it's not just
individuals that could be recognized as being significant enough to deserve this honor. It's also groups of
individuals, organizations, or major event.
For example, there's some discussion, significant discussion, afoot in New York to rename a station after
the Stonewall Riots, which were a major civil rights occurrence for the LGBTQ community in New York
some decades ago. So that's an example of something similar that we had contemplated that could come
into play down the line.
The eligibility criteria is a key part to focus on here. What we are looking for in applications submitted to
rename a property or provide a secondary name, I should say, an honorary name to a property or station,
are documented significant contributions to public transit nationally, public transit within the RTD, and/or
within the vicinity of the property subject to a potential renaming.
Again, the Stonewall Riots are one example of where proximity might add value to renaming a station. We
might also contemplate, in our own history, how proximity is significant with respect to, say, Civic Center
and the Gang of 19, as well as Wade Blank's efforts, their protests having occurred just across the street
from where Civic Center is now located.
Then, in addition to documented historical information provided in a narrative to the board, there would also
need to be some additional things that occur. First and foremost, a demonstrated breadth and depth of
public support for the proposal by way of formal letters of support from community leaders. I want to stop
here and let you all know that the committee really debated significantly. The working group, I should say,
debated significantly whether there should be a specific number of letters hung on this requirement, and
where we ultimately felt, given that we have a review committee that I'll get at to later, is we didn't want to
tie the hands of the review committee or the board by saying you need to submit 10 letters.
What's really more important is not necessarily the volume of letters, but the breadth. Are they coming from
a wide range of community, or are they coming from a rather narrow band of the community? It's easy to

imagine a situation where you might get 15 letters, but it's only from a subsection of your community. And
it doesn't really represent broad support for it.
And then a review by the Honorary Property Name Proposal Review Committee, which we'll cover again
here in a moment. And then a two thirds majority vote of approval by the board. A couple exclusions are
indicated here. Former board members are not eligible, and any individual who has not been deceased for
at least 10 years.
This was an idea that we borrowed when we met with folks at the City and County of Denver's Parks
Department who are working on revamping Denver's approach to public art, as well as civic recognition.
And I think it's no secret that oftentimes there are things that can come to light about an individual that
weren't previously known. And so building in a buffer zone of 10 years allows the board to be sure, relatively
sure, that there's not going to be anything that's really negative that comes out about an individual's history
after a renaming or an honorary name has been bestowed.
And then again, the last thing I'll mention here, following a discussion, an opportunity for public comment,
the board may remove an honorary name by a two thirds majority vote. The last time you saw this was a
simple majority vote. We felt two thirds in matching-- the two thirds needed to add a name, should also be
the requirement to remove a name. And then also adding in this public process.
So you couldn't just decide to remove a name from a station without at least a modicum of public input.
Generally speaking, if you ever got to that point, it would probably be pretty clear and convincing as to why
you would want to remove a name. But nonetheless, this element here protects against potentially
capricious behavior. Any questions on that before I move on to the procedures?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Any questions from directors on the policy before the procedures, committee members,
or other directors present? Seeing none. And I expect there's probably going to be some at the end here,
Mr. Kroll, but please go ahead and proceed.
JACK KROLL: Great. So this is the procedures document. Why is it important to have a procedures
document? Well, you can have your policy, but how do you get from start your starting point to your
endpoint? And what does the public understand about how you all are going to make your decision and the
steps they need to take in order to get there? And so I'll just quickly jump down to-- well, actually, in this
overview here, there's a note that I want to make that Director Lewis had raised.
He had raised concerns at the April meeting that we might put ourselves into this position where the
committee that's going to be the initial reviewer of these proposals is almost perpetually meeting. So what
we did is we added language here that specifically states, "each year, the chair of the board will convene
the Honorary Property Name Proposal Review Committee no more than once."
So while we will accept applications on a rolling basis, you're not going to be obligated to meet every time
you receive an application. Rather, in coordination with the Board Office, the chair can get a sense of how
many applications have come in since the last time the committee has met, how time sensitive are these
applications, and then convene the committee.
So that's in response to Director Lewis's feedback. And then quickly, the steps here, first, an honorary
property name application to the board of directors by way of the Board Office needs to be submitted. And
that should include the summary of the individual or the group or the organization's contributions to transit

locally, nationally, as well as any connection to the location, letters of support from a range of individuals,
groups, and organizations.
Again, we debated this. But we felt like it's important to emphasize range and depth in that, as opposed to
a specific number. And then formal resolution, this is a big one. This was in the policy the last time you saw
it or in the procedures the last time you saw it. But this really sets a high bar. It should be very rare for RTD
to be renaming stations because only those who are most deserving should have that honor bestowed.
And so we debated this heavily as a group, but really came down on this idea that a formal resolution, in
order to rename a station that primarily serves passengers, would be required from the local city or county
commissioners. That would not apply to, say, if the board wanted to change the name of district shops or
something like that. So we specifically called that out. And that is different from the last time you saw this,
just specifically noting that it would only apply to passenger serving stations, this requirement to get support
from the local city council or county commissioners.
Following the receipt of an application packet, the Board Office notifies the board so that you know there's
one in there. You all can take a look if you like, at that point, too. And then again, re-emphasizing, no more
than once annually, the chair of the RTD Board of Directors in consultation with the GM and CEO empanels
this initial review committee.
Why is a review committee even important in all of this? I know this is a little dry. But you really want some
external validation. You want the community to support it. And having an initial review committee take a
look at this with a clear set of guidelines in the rubric that we'll cover as our last item here, is important to
lend additional credence to the board's decision. And it also provides a great opportunity for community
engagement.
So these are the eight individuals on there. One thing change is we got feedback. There was originally a
call for two historians. We got feedback at the April meeting that the board would prefer to see one. So
we've adjusted that accordingly. New this go around is this notion that the chair of the RTD board of
directors, in consultation of the GM and CEO, would designate a member of the review committee to serve
as the chair.
That was not in the previous document you all saw. But it's important. We sat down around the end here
and thought, boy, who's going to lead that review committee? How will they decide that? And we're
proposing that the chair just pick someone from that group.
And then a couple of things to highlight here at the end, Director Ruscha was pretty, I think, insightful and
artful in making the point that the board would want to have an avenue by which it could reserve its rights
to pull forward more than one proposal for consideration each year. And so we've added some language
here that the executive committee would have the capacity, after being briefed on the proposals by the
review committee, would have the capacity to exercise its own discretion in deciding which proposals may
or may not move forward.
We did limit it to one. Again, that was in-- the default is to only get one proposal to the board each year
unless the executive committee decides otherwise. And the reason why it was set to one is so that we really
honored and respected the gravity of these renamings of these secondary and honorary names. You didn't
want to be over-- You don't want to be flooded or inundated with these name change requests because
they also take a lot of significant time from staff.

However, if there were multiple requests in one year that really did meet that threshold, the executive
committee reserves the right to go in and consider those further. Any questions on this before I move to the
final item, which is the rubric? All right.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I see First Vice Chair Catlin. Please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Jack, I know that we talked about a historian or somebody with
expertise. I'm just curious how we would go about identifying such a person, and if there has been any
interest expressed from said scholars or-- I mean, do we have a pool from which to choose?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, that's actually-- you've jogged my memory on this, Director Catlin. This language on
this section here, coming from a local university, library, or museum who has a record of scholarly work in
transit, local, or Colorado history. This was fleshed out more based off of a similar comment we had in April
at the board meeting to say, where are we going to pull this from?
There has not been outreach done by me, proactively, yet to start identifying these folks. However, what
I've included in the board report is a paragraph that states, if you all approve this next week, we would
effectively go live with this in October. I know that seems like, gosh, two more months. But it's going to give
us the time that we need to work with civil rights, with government relations, and with communications to
get the word out. In that time, too, I can establish and reconnect with various different entities who may
offer access to a historian.
There are several things that immediately come to my mind. We have prominent major universities. I have
a few relationships still left at the University of Colorado that I can call in. My father-- not to make this too
personal-- but he spent his career at the Denver Public Library actually managing the Western History
department there.
On a separate project, we've been in touch, as well, with the state archives related to historical records for
the board. And those would be the places I would initially turn to to solicit some interest for this.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, first vice chair. Mr. Kroll, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: OK, last but not least is the rubric. This is the document that, when we presented in April,
there was clear consensus from the board that we should have a rubric included in this process so that the
public understands, and those making and submitting applications are aware of how they'll be graded and
scored, or the bar that they need to meet, rather.
So there's really three categories here. They tie directly back to the policy and the requirements there. So
the first is historical significance to RTD. If you recall, I highlighted at the beginning of that document that
there needed to be, from each proposed honoree, significant documented contributions to RTD to transit,
nationally to RTD, or to the location in which the station or property resides that's being considered for a
secondary name.
So that is what this first section spells out. The second section is getting into this idea of the breadth and
depth of community support, and so providing some clear guidance to the review committee on what
constitutes significant breadth and depth of community support. And then the third item is directly pulled
from RTD's values.

In that narrative that's provided in the application, is it clear and demonstrable that the honoree lived a life
or is an organization that stands up for the values that RTD shares, or was an event that reflects the values
that RTD has? And with that, that concludes everything I wanted to give you all an overview of. I know it's
a lot. It's probably a bit pedantic for some. But I think it's a very thorough process that provides the board
with a very clear and defensible process and sets the bar extremely high for any organization that wants to
bring forward and honor someone.
At the end of the day, it might be a lot. But these are-- I'll reemphasize-- it is pretty rare to do this nationally.
And so building a transparent process that sets the bar really high, I think is important in this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. I appreciate that. And thank you for those comments,
that the bar being high. I think the goal is to have the bar be appropriately high, given the significant cost
and changes that would occur. So thank you for the work on that. And thank you for walking us through
that and presenting it.
I'll go next to questions, first starting with committee members, and then any other directors that are present
after that, starting with First Vice Chair Catlin. Please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And, Mr. Kroll, I really appreciate this, but I think that the very thoughtful and
thorough nature of the policy and the procedures and the rubric really demonstrate that this is an item that
we take very seriously and that it will not be capricious or frivolous in its application. So thank you.
JACK KROLL: Of course.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you First Vice Chair Catlin. I appreciate that. I echo those sentiments. Other
committee members. Are there any other directors who would like to comment or have any questions on
this before we take a vote? Director Lewis, please go ahead.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah just quickly, I want to thank Jack and his staff for working on this. I know it started as
an idea proposed by the disability community to rename a building. And RTD took that on. And just want
to, again, thank him for all the work he's done because there was a lot of changes along the way. And I
think this is gotten to a point that it's a document that people can be proud of. And I think everybody is
looking forward to using this document to rename something pretty soon here. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, director. Not seeing other hands. I'll just make a few comments. And I do
have one question before making those comments. So my question is actually for general manager and
CEO Johnson on this. And thank you for your engagement in this process, as well, and your team's
engagement with the board office staff. I think this has been a good collaboration.
But given your experience around the country and given that we were looking at other agencies, I just
wanted to confirm with you to ensure that we've landed in a place where you feel, from your staff's
perspective, and given with the context of your experience and background, that we're in a place where
this is practical, where it can be executed, where the bar is where it should be, and that these represent
policies and procedures that we can follow and truly implement on a go forward basis. So, Ms. Johnson, if
you wouldn't mind commenting on that, I'd love to hear your perspective.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Debra Johnson, General Manager, CEO. Good
afternoon. Thank you for the question. There were thorough analysis done relative to other transit agencies,
as indicated by the report, as Mr. Kroll articulated. Generally speaking, one looks a geographic location for
ease of navigation, especially for people that aren't familiar with the area.

Keeping in mind, as well, that generally the geographic location is the primary identifier for a station, and
that any name change, recognizing, or honoring an individual is usually a subset. Moreover, as we look at
head signs on vehicles and things of the like, it will generally speak to the geographic location. So this is
more or less in line with my experience. And a lot of the agencies that were identified are ones of which I
am very familiar.
And I believe that this presents an equitable and open and fair opportunity for a myriad of different
demographics should they elect to put forward a recommendation for a change. And as a body, for all
intents and purposes, RTD should not be assuming the costs and, as it's outlined, relative to the
responsibility I believe is in line with good industry practice. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson, for commenting on that. And then my comments
further, Mr. Kroll, thank you for your work on this. I know this was a lot, and collaborating both with-- well,
all of with the board, with your staff, as well as with General Manager and CEO Johnson staff, as well. This
was a lot.
And Mr. Kroll, I give you tremendous credit in recognizing that when we did have a request that came in,
quickly identifying that we did not have policies and procedures to field those requests and taking this as
an opportunity to go further than just simply considering one off requests and identifying the opportunity
and the need to create something like this. So thank you for identifying that. Thank you for engaging with
the board on this. Again, thank you to directors Ruscha and Sloan and to all members of staff who
participated in this that were mentioned earlier.
I think we've landed in a good place. And this gives us a great framework to move forward from. So with
that all being said and with the additional context from Ms. Johnson, which, once again, thank you for
providing, are there any further questions for discussion? Seeing none. I'll move on to the vote. Are there
any no votes on this action? All right, wonderful. That's great. That's four yes votes, zero no votes, and one
absent.
Thank you very much, once again. I'm delighted to see where we were able to land with that. All right, we
will now move to the July board meeting agenda review. And this is for us to approve the board meeting
agenda for July, 2024. Because of the majority of July's committee meetings happened in one week, most
of our action items for the executive committee agenda planning purposes were considered to be
unanimous.
There is one change from Tuesday's and Wednesday's vote outcomes. The September, 2024, service
change will not be included in the consent agenda. And that will be voted on separately. This will be reflected
in the board agenda for next week. So thank you to everybody for your patience on that. We had a lot of
things happening in one week. And thank you very much to the Board Office, Mr. Kroll, you and your entire
team here for helping, pull everything together here on a compressed timeline.
Additionally, I do want to note that I, along with the Board Office Executive Manager, Jack Kroll, did receive
written requests from three directors to add a director initiated discussion item to next week's agenda. This
was directors Dishell, Harwick, and Ruscha requesting that a discussion item be added to our agenda
focused on director Ruscha's and director Harwick's work related to Vision Zero.
Per our bylaws, the request to add an item to the agenda must be received in writing by three directors by
noon on the Wednesday prior to the board meeting. We did receive two requests by noon and a third came
in later. And therefore, all requests were not received on time.

However, our bylaws do stipulate that it then falls to the discretion of the chair to add the item or not. I did
commit to adding the discussion item to the agenda, as long as the board office was able to receive all of
the supporting items, including any attachments and presentations, given their compressed timeline this
week, by the deadline of noon today, Mountain Daylight Time.
We did not receive those, and completely understand. We're all on compressed timelines to make this
happen. Board Office Executive Manager, Jack Kroll, did inform me that we don't have all of the supporting
materials in hand at this time. As such, we will not add this discussion item for Vision Zero to the agenda
for next week's meeting.
However, I will be in close touch with Operations, Safety, and Security Committee Chair Whitmore, as we
have already been on this issue. And he is letting me know that a discussion item will be at the Operations,
Safety, and Security Committee meeting at the September agenda. I would also like to further note that I
certainly invite any of the directors who had placed the request or those directly involved in the Vision Zero
initiative to please feel free to provide an update to the board in public during other matters, simply verbally
stating what's going on, and reminding everybody that there will be a full discussion item coming forward
to the Operation, Safety, and Security meeting in September.
So thank you to everybody involved in that important initiative for all the work that has been done there.
And once again, thank you to the board office for working not just on this, but a number of items on a
compressed timeline to prepare for next week's busy board meeting agenda. With all of that being stated
and the background being provided and the update being made to the consent agenda, I will ask if we have
a motion to move the July board agenda to the board meeting on Tuesday, June 30, with those changes
noted.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I hear Catlin as the movement. I hear Guissinger as the second. And we will now have
discussion. Again, I will start with any committee members on discussion and then move to other directors.
See no committee members. I will go to Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm not even sure if I can comment at this per our rules at this
point, because I'm not part of the executive committee. But thank you for the recommendation. I just wanted
to note that regarding Vision Zero, we do have materials. I submitted them at 12:12.
And I understand if you would like to keep that hard deadline. I sent you a text as to what the intent was or
some context, I would say. But just for the record, the meeting materials were, or the discussion materials,
were the same as OSS. We had just gotten feedback that we could shorten it a little bit. So we were pulling
out a few slides.
And also, slides 20 and 21, which was what we were asking the board to do, needed additional clarification,
which I do think might just be better clarified in the attached report. However, I understand if you need to
keep it off the agenda. And there was some confusion this week as to whether or not we would be allowed
to present. And I made a commitment to change this PowerPoint by noon. And I will own that. So I also just
feel like I just want to say that on the record.
And, yeah, I didn't know, sir, if there was a way to comment before you called for the vote. So I'm sorry if I
went out of order in your meeting. But thank you for allowing me a chance to explain.

ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem, director Ruscha. Thank you for sharing the information. I do see some
materials that have come in. What I'll ask for is this. We will not have this on the board agenda item for next
week as a discussion item. But I do hope that there's a robust, full discussion that will inform any further
actions to come at that September Operation, Safety, and Security meeting.
But I would ask Mr. Kroll, if you could please help. I will work with you offline in ensuring that all the materials
that have been provided are fully provided to all board directors prior to our meeting next week on Tuesday,
so that if the matter does come up in other matters, which, Director Ruscha, I would encourage you to
provide an update on that. And I will also ask for Committee Chair Whitmore to do the same, to update on
the plan for discussion.
Directors will have the benefit of having been provided any of those existing materials, which I do
understand are similar or the same as those that are already been provided. So we'll proceed with that
being the plan. Director Ruscha, with that being stated, I see your hand is still up. And would you like to
comment further?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir. So our bylaws state that we will take public comment on things that are
agendized. And we have over 20 something CBOs, Community Based Organizations, who have either
directly worked on this or have since lent their support.
And so I know this is at your discretion, and I don't mean to put you on the spot, but would they still be able
to make a comment just recognizing that we've put this on pause for a bit to allow other matters to come
forth that were obviously very pressing for the agency? I don't want-- because the materials won't be in the
agenda packet unless you elect to put them there.
And I would still like to give community an opportunity to speak before we go on break. And I also feel like
those leading organizations have been very patient with us as we try to work out something on the calendar.
So I wanted to flag. And I understand if that's not a question to be asked now. But our answer to-- excuse
me-- but just for your consideration, so that the CBOs are aware of what they can do, because our bylaws
are very specific. It has to be on the current or previous agenda for public comment. And that really was-ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And that really was in addition to making sure all of our colleagues knew exactly what
the ask was and where they were if they missed the OSS meeting. That was the other purpose, as well,
was just making sure we kept our promise to those CBOs. Because many of them are aware of the rules.
And we had such overwhelmingly positive response to this project that I was hoping to give them that space
because we're going on break in August.
And that's the comment. And I wanted to put it out there and we can maybe talk offline as to how we would
deal with that. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Noted. And I will consider how we'll approach that public
comment and communicate that out. But I did see Mr. Kroll's hand go up during that. I just wanted to check
in with you, if your hand went up in response to Director Ruscha's comment or question there. Mr. Kroll,
please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, thank you, Chair Davidson. Previous Chair, Lynn Guissinger, and I actually worked
through a similar issue. While each of the committees restricts public comment to what's on the agenda for

this month and then the preceding month, your full board meetings have no such restrictions. So you would
be capable of receiving public comment on any host of issues at that time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you for that clarity, Mr. Kroll. And I do think with that being said, Director
Ruscha, if there was communication wanted to put out to the CBOs on that, please feel free to do so. And
we can receive any comment on that.
It's also, as I understand, we have had some discussions and updates on this fairly recently. So it's very
reasonable to stand. So please feel free to communicate that out, Director Ruscha. And Mr. Kroll, thank
you for clarifying that.
OK, seeing no further discussion on our agenda, I'll call for the vote. Are there any no votes on moving the
agenda forward? Seeing none. That will also pass with four yes, zero no, and one absent. Thank you,
everybody, for the discussion and the comments.
We'll now move to our discussion items. We have four discussion items this afternoon. The first is the
monthly government relations report for July 2024. Mr. Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer,
thank you for joining us here, as always. I will now hand off the floor to you to please present the item. Go
ahead, sir.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, chair, and members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer. I just have a brief report for you all. Starting at the federal level, in the written report, it
really focuses on the House Appropriations Process and where we are there. The House Appropriations
Process has gone through the full committee. And they voted to pass a bill.
Notably, there is less funding in that bill for discretionary programs. And it was really communicated out on
the House side that that's due to the advanced appropriations that was associated with the IIJA larger
surface transportation bill. That said, in the written report, it noted that there was nothing on the Senate side
that happened.
And then actually, earlier this morning, the Senate Appropriations Committee moved forward. They
basically skipped the subcommittee process and went straight to the full committee. And they were able to
pass out a bipartisan bill earlier this morning on the Senate side that funds transportation program.
That bill largely adheres to all of the funding recommendations in the IIJA, which basically means that all of
the discretionary grant funding that was not included in the House bill is included in the Senate bill. So there
will certainly be, as I think we've talked about before in this committee, there will certainly be negotiations
between the House and the Senate. Whether those negotiations take place by the end of the federal fiscal
year, which is September 30, that is yet to be seen.
And if they aren't, they'll have to pass a continuing resolution to keep the federal government funded or
come up with a compromise on that by that time. The other thing I just want to make sure that the committee
is all aware of is that in the House bill, there is community project funding, which is essentially the process
that replaced earmarks from years and years before that allow members to sponsor specific projects.
And Representative DeGette, who previously has been able to secure funding for RTD's near term
downtown rail reconstruction project, was able to get another 850,000 added into the House bill for federal
fiscal year '25. So that's good news.

I haven't been able to see what happened on the Senate side in terms of their equivalent to the community
project funding. They only have a summary of the bill posted so far. So I'll report back to the committee on
what's included on the Senate side of the funding bill.
Moving to the state, as of the time of the writing of the report, RTD really only knew that the TLRC was
going to hold three meetings and set dates for those. So in between July 13, when the report was written,
RTD had worked with the committee and selected September 25 as the date that RTD would go and present
for the TLRC. And so that's the update that wasn't really included in the written report, but look forward to
participating with the committee.
And not much more to report there. There was a hearing earlier this week on July 23. I haven't had a good
chance to listen to the full report yet, as I was out of the office earlier this week. And we'll report back on
any of those discussions to the full committee.
And then moving on to the local side of things, as noted in the board report, have had a lot of engagement
with all of the local municipalities recently. And that was largely through the subregional service councils.
Had a great opportunity, I think, to answer questions related to the legislation that was passed last year at
the state level with some of the transit funding, and just kind of getting everybody on the same page with
timelines and process for developing and getting that funding out the door at the state level.
So that was a good opportunity, I think, to talk with all of our municipal partners on some of that legislation
passed earlier this year. Also had an opportunity to engage with Lone Tree mayor, Marissa Harmon. That
was a great meeting and good opportunity to build a relationship there. Mayor Harmon is the new mayor
that has taken over there in Lone Tree.
And then lastly, not included in the written report, I joined NATA, or the North Area Transport Association,
earlier this morning and had an opportunity to engage with them on legislation passed and answer any
questions regarding RTD. So with that, that concludes my report. And happy to answer any questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Davies. Greatly appreciate the report, as always. I'll now open
up for any questions from committee members to start. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I don't have any questions. I do have a comment. And thank
you, Mr. Davies. That was good report. I know that yesterday when the TLRC met, both our chair and Mr.
Davies were out of town. And Ms. Johnson had her schedule set. As Mr. Davies said, the change was made
recently.
I think several of us listened to that TLRC. Director Lewis, I heard, did a very nice job. I was in transit at that
point with the CCDC hat on. And I did go down for the afternoon. I did not address the committee as a
whole. But I wanted to.
There was an article apparently today that says RTD rebuffed the committee, and RTD is circling the
wagons. And that is clearly not the case. And I did get the chance to talk with some of the sponsors of 1447
and just express-- and I think our chair did, as well, through text-- that we would like to engage. And I know
that Ms. Johnson's letter to them also said this, that we do intend to engage and work with them before
they move forward with whatever legislation they're considering this year.
At the end of the session, the committee said, or at least some of the committee said, that they are going
to start something on Transit Tuesdays. I don't know exactly what that is, but I'm putting that in your ear
because I think that will be a way to start talking with them. So that's all. Thanks.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Second Vice Chair. And yes, certainly, it is our intent, both-- well,
the entire agency to engage robustly with the TLRC, and appreciate Ms. Johnson's letter and kind on that,
Mr. Davies, your report, and Second Vice Chair Guissinger, along with other directors, thank you for being
in attendance and listening in there. And as you had noted, did have the opportunity to communicate with
one legislator yesterday during my travels to indicate that the date had simply had not worked out for a
large number of us, but that we will be attending at future meetings and, of course, are thoroughly engaged.
So thank you for noting that, Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
Are there any other questions or comments from directors? Any directors aside from committee members?
All right, seeing none, we'll move on. Mr. Davies, thank you very much. Always appreciate not just you
being here, but also the written reports that you've been submitting to the board, as well. Thank you.
All right, we'll now move to our second discussion item. This is for the Audit Committee member selection
process. Let's go ahead. I know Director Dishell was here. He did need to leave the meeting, unfortunately.
He may be rejoining us. Should he do so during other matters, I'll see if there's any further comments he
wanted to make.
But this is for the Audit Committee member selection process. At this time, I'd like to hand off to Mr. Jack
Kroll, our Executive Manager of the Board Office, to please present the item.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. I'll be brief on this one. You formulated, as you all are very well
aware, your independent audit committee back towards the end of 2022. And it's started meeting at the
beginning of 2023. You have a system by which the audit committee is comprised of both board members
and external members, three board members with two external members for a total of five members.
Three members are approaching a potential crossroads with respect to their term on the committee. Two
members will have their committee terms expire. That's actually John Olenberger, who's an external
member, and Erik Davidson. We will be very sad when Director Davidson leaves his capacity with RTD at
the end of the year. But we need to prepare for it, nonetheless.
The initial term for John Olenberger was two years. And that will expire on December 31, 2024. I have been
in touch with John. He has indicated a desire to continue in his role. Chair Davidson's term will expire, and
he will no longer be a board member, in addition to his term on the audit committee expiring.
And then the third position that is in some flux is that Director Dishell, as we all know, is not running for reelection. However, he was reappointed last year alongside Director Catlin for a two year term expiring at
the end of 2025.
Given the staggering the committee and the board anticipated, there actually being a time when a director's
term as a board member expired prior to their term on the audit committee expiring. And so in anticipating
such an event, there's actually a way for the board to afford Director Dishell the opportunity of staying on
the Audit Committee as one of the three board representatives through the end of his term as an Audit
Committee member, even though he will no longer be on the board.
So guaranteed at this point, you have one vacancy approaching with Director Davidson's departure. And
you may have a second vacancy if Director Dishell chooses not to continue or the board opts to replace
Director Dishell with a current board member. And then you could open up the external membership position
currently held by John, Mr. Olenberger. But however, he has indicated he is interested in returning.

So with that, I want to cue up the conversation by saying you all, two years ago when you filled these
appointments, had a process for both board members and external members to go through. Director
Davidson and Director Catlin could fill you in more on that. But effectively, you advertise this on LinkedIn
for external members and on the RTD website for external members.
And then you did also request for any board members who are interested to submit a letter of interest, as
well as a resume outlining their qualifications. So what I'm looking for at this point is just direction on how
you all want to go about filling the director position that will become vacant, as well as whether you all would
be OK with reappointing Mr. Olenberger without a process there similar to how you all reappointed Directors
Catlin and Dishell last year.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. And before opening up for questions and discussions
from other directors, I did just want to note for those present, I think many of us will recall that there were a
couple of things that we were solving for in this. Much of that is noted and shared within the board packet.
But I would summarize some of what was being solved for as being searching for the right, ensuring that
we have the right experience and expertise within the Audit Committee, ensuring continuity within the Audit
Committee, and also preserving institutional knowledge and ensuring that knowledge remain intact, which,
of course, is very much linked to continuity, although somewhat separate.
And so with that being the case, we had developed this process for having members that I think, most
notably and I'm glad we anticipated, the situation that Director Dishell finds himself in, that he will be midterm when he will no longer be a board director. And some of the discussions around that that the then ad
hoc audit committee had around this were around allowing a roll off period so that we preserve that
institutional knowledge and maintain some continuity during a transition.
So we find ourselves in this interesting position. But it was well anticipated. I think in opening up for
questions and discussion, we're really solving here today for the direction, as Mr. Kroll laid out, on both Mr.
Olenberger's position, and do we support the concept of there being interest to continue and therefore
reappointing? And we're then also looking at and reminding ourselves of that process so that we can solicit
director Dishell's interest in completing his term, as well.
So all of that being said, I'll go ahead and open up for the discussion and questions, starting with First Vice
Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You touched on it briefly, but I believe that we allowed for the
extension of a year for directors should they go off the board if they wanted to still serve on the Audit
Committee. So that may be an option for Directors Davidson and Dishell if they were interested.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And thank you for that comment. Yes. Are there other questions or comments on this,
either from committee members or other directors that may still be present? See that some directors have
dropped.
I'll make the comment. And, Mr. Kroll, I know you're seeking direction here, and see what my colleagues
think of this. I think that, given that we offered the opportunity to extend the position to our inside members
and given that this was about developing that knowledge, that expertise, and ensuring continuity, I think it
does make sense to offer that same opportunity to our external members on the committee, unless we were
having a conversation around any performance concerns of the Audit Committee itself or any particular
member, or whether we were seeing significant interest on the outside around this.

I, for one, will speak that I've been happy with where the Audit Committee is moving. I think we're refining
processes and learning all the time and getting better. But when we look at where we were a few years
ago, it is night and day difference. And we have a well functioning Audit Committee. And I do credit our
current committee members with a lot of that work, as well as our staff and our external, our contracted
internal auditors.
So I'm very happy with our current external members. And if folks are looking for a recommendation from
me having been on the committee, that would be my recommendation that we extend the same offer to
extend the term, just as we did to our internal members, unless there's some performance concern. So
that's my feedback. And I'm happy to work with you, Mr. Kroll, on realizing and moving that forward should
that be the direction of executive committee. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I completely concur with that sentiment. And as a side note, I
wanted to say that there was mention made of our audit committee at the TLRC and it was very positive.
That was a direction that RTD had taken that was very positive. So I just wanted to make note of that
because I think that some of the other messaging got lost, or diluted that particular comment that was made.
And I very much appreciated that. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you for noting that. And I know you and I would share being happy with
that being noticed and discussed and acknowledged. I think it's a good governance step. And as always,
thanks, First Vice Chair Catlin, for your leadership of the entire development of the Audit Committee and
leading the ad hoc Audit Committee. I think we ended in a great place there.
Any other comments, any other concerns? My recommendation, again, being we proceed with offering an
extension. Seeing a thumbs up from Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Great. Well, Mr. Kroll, I'll work with you
offline. And we'll touch base with Director Dishell, who did let me know he was going to have to leave today.
And we can discuss the path forward. So thank you. And we'll be bringing forward some actions around
this soon.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Specifically, you're slated to take action on appointing committee members in
November.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, for noting that. And, as always, should any directors between now
and then when we're getting that appointment ready have any further input or thoughts on this, please feel
free to reach out to myself and/or the board office on this, as well, or also Director Dishell, who serves as
our current chair of the Audit Committee.
OK, with that being stated, we'll move to our third discussion item. This is the 2025 board retreat planning.
This won't be the last time we're collecting retreat topics, I am sure. But this is to start our process planning
for next year so that we supply ourselves ample time to do so and ensure the retreat is effective. So with
that, Mr. Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office, are there any things that you would like to
comment or present with regards to this item?
JACK KROLL: No. I would just say we're going to talk about it again in September. And just looking for
initial feedback type of ideas that we are looking for input on are calendar date, how long you want to go
on the day, what are your desired outcomes or topics? And on this facilitation noted-- I mean, that is a large
expense that is incurred every year with respect to these retreats. There's been a fair amount of discussion
internally amongst board office and folks on in general council and the executive office.

We have resources within house to potentially facilitate certain sections, too, and saving some costs. So
this is very preliminary. But what are your thoughts on the retreat? Well, we'll again discuss in September
once we've taken some initial direction, brought back some further ideas and thoughts. But for now, what's
top of mind?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Kroll. I appreciate it. Any thoughts from directors present?
JACK KROLL: We can also just wait till September. And maybe one of the things that we can do, too, in
the meantime is send out a survey to board members and get some initial input. And that can further inform
our discussion in September.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, that's great. Thanks, Mr. Kroll. I will say, there are a couple of things we've put a
pin in along the way and said, this might be a good retreat topic. And one that I will note that I think I know
is on your radar, Mr. Kroll, but I'll just state here for the record and for other directors here, is the concept
of whether or not, as we work through our training policies and procedures for the onboarding of new
directors, there could potentially be-- and I don't want to get out in front of the work. We spoke at a board
meeting about having some directors work on this, which currently Secretary Guzman, Director Whitmore
are working on and looking at together, along with Mr. Kroll.
I don't want to get too far out in front of them. But there could potentially be multiple facets to this. There is
the training of new directors coming on board. There's also whether or not directors would like any kind of
ongoing training or topics to be touched on or special topics. We've talked about potentially using retreat
time that way.
Those are some things that have come up that we've put a pin in. I suspect that the outcome of those
policies and discussions is something that should be brought up at the retreat and talk about what training
will look like. And so I would suggest that certainly be a topic.
We've also had, I think, some topics come up around related to our next discussion item actually here today,
which is how we leverage work plans to refine the focus of what we're communicating between board and
staff on, what expectations are around communication, and how we focus the efforts of the board to ensure
alignment and productive action.
So we've now used the work plans for a year. I think it would make sense to look back and see how those
work plans are serving us and how we might want to adjust in addition to, of course, working on them. But
just as a reminder to everybody, we also put a pin in how can we use the work plans to better focus all of
our efforts? So that may serve as a good topic, as well. So those would be two things that I would just throw
out there as things I have notes as having said, let's come back to that and maybe consider that for the
retreat.
Great. Not seeing any other hands raised. We will now move to our fourth discussion item, which is board
to staff communication and requests for information and/or work product. I'll kick off this conversation and
then see if, First Vice Chair Catlin, there's any words you'd like to provide on the matter. And then once
those are provided, we'll open up for further discussion.
I know we don't have too many directors here present, and this will be coming back up again. But I'll just
touch on a few things here. First of all, thank you very much to all directors for their feedback at our last
executive committee when we did discuss this and solicit feedback. Thank you to Mr. Kroll, Miss Knapp

Rhodes, for working with us on the feedback, as well, on this matter, and General Manager and CEO
Johnson for your engagement on this, as well, in refining this.
What we have ultimately decided to do to improve or enhance our board to staff communications and
ensure that our values are well respected within that was make an update to our board operating guidelines.
I had the opportunity to engage with Mr. Kroll, with First Vice Chair Catlin, and General Manager, CEO
Johnson, after our last executive committee meeting to try to find the intersection of a lot of comments.
And I think this is definitely in the category of not wanting to overcomplicate a matter and not wanting perfect
to be the enemy of good and start with something in the Board Operating Guidelines that can be refined
and adjusted over time. Perhaps might even be another retreat topic.
So therefore, what we did is the substantive change that's being recommended to the operating guidelines
is the addition of an entirely new section, which you'll see starting on packet page 93 in the redlined version,
or more specifically shows up in blue edits. In this section is called Regarding Communication with Staff.
And what has been done is a number of bullets have been added and outlined here, the first of which is a
simple bullet, but also a very important one, which is the board fully committing to its adopted agency
values. Whenever staff communications are initiated, this is ensuring that all communications the board
delivers are done with passion, with respect, with diversity, with trustworthiness, with collaboration, and
with ownership in mind and well honored.
There are additional bullets, then. We discussed last time and for a few times about really prioritizing,
leveraging the agency response system, and therefore ensuring that all nonlegal and nonpersonnel
questions and requests for assistance go through the agency response system with the board office to
ensure that directors receive the most up to date and accurate information, and that we minimize any
redundant use of team time and resources.
A bullet was noted to ensure, of course, that we direct our legal inquiries to our general counsel. We added
a bullet to communicate directly with the General Manager and CEO when direct staff communications are
required and/or leverage the general manager and CEO's designee for a given topic-- for example and as
is noted, a committee chair and committee vice chair working with a functional leader designated by the
general manager and CEO for such communications.
We added a bullet around ensuring that we make every effort for nonemail communication outside of
business hours to not be made. In other words, while emails may be sent at various times, recognizing that
folks have the ability to control filters and control their emails. But if it is a nonurgent matter, to not leverage
nonemail communications outside of business hours out of respect.
We had a bullet in here around submitting inquiries in a manner that allows time for staff to respond when
practicable. We added a note to ensure that we are directly addressing matters when we're able to do so
without taking staff time. We had some discussion at the last executive committee meeting around directors
really working together to consolidate responses, share responses with each other, so we're best armed to
directly respond to constituents.
There's a note in here around sending customers to our customer support resources and how to do that.
There's a note in here around focusing our communications around policy decisions, a note and bullet, as
well, around addressing issues and not personalities. There's a note in here about respecting our
organizational structure.

And then one thing I think that was really important at the very end there, is to review on a semi-annual
basis the volume and the nature of requests being sent by staff. Once again, we said this last time, but
thanks to especially Miss Knapp Rhodes, but the entire board office team, we have great insights now in
terms of the data and the requests that are coming in. And we'll have more on staff time utilized and so
forth. And that's something that we added in here as, let's commit to review that.
Aside from that substantially new section, then, there were some minor adjustments made throughout to
help jive with that section, a few tweaks here and there just that were largely cleanup, and one word change
on packet page 91 from FasTracks Corridors to FasTracks Projects, something that First Vice Chair Catlin
had pointed out that really, there's been a number of conversations over the past few months about all of
the things that FasTracks was committed to do. And we wanted to find a more broad term to encompass
everything there.
So some minor cleanup in here, but the substantive changes are that new section. Again, an attempt to
find a starting point for us. My expectation is that this will grow and evolve over time as the board does. So
that being all stated, thank you for allowing me to walk through all of that. It's an important matter.
First vice Chair Catlin, are there any further comments you would like to make or address regarding the
changes to the Board Operating Guidelines that we're recommending?
PEGGY CATLIN: At this time, no. I appreciate that you said that it might evolve over time. And I've been
giving it some thought. And maybe we'll talk to you offline a little bit later. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Other comments or questions from other directors? I mentioned both of them
a number of times, so if Mr. Kroll or General Manager and CEO Johnson, either of you would like to speak,
please raise your hand. If not, no worries.
OK, great. We're not taking any vote on this right now. So if anyone has any feedback or other directors
do, please contact me. This will come back for action to the executive committee in September to make
these changes. OK, with that, we will move to other matters. Are there any other matters to discuss? Yes,
Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Yeah, the chair of the Performance Committee, Catlin
and I, as vice chair, have been talking some about the need for data, for context, for many reasons, for
making our decisions and performing our required oversight function to make sure we're being transparent
with our constituents. And also, when we see data that are incorrect out there, we can respond.
My understanding is that staff is planning to bring us KPIs in September, which is great. Miss Johnson
mentioned the other night that we have KPIs that are sort of requirements for us. But it doesn't seem fair to
expect the data we're wanting without saying what it is we need. So we're talking about bringing a list of
suggestions and seeking them from other board members, bringing it to the Performance Committee in
August-- August 8, I think-- and trying to put together a list of things that the board would like to see.
Some of those, I think, would be appropriate for our dashboard, and certainly other things. For example,
other groups are coming out with a lot of data about RTD, that we're slower than other agencies in bringing
back service or that one that I've been seeing a couple of times now, that our ridership is significantly down
from pre-pandemic, and more than others.
And I think that those sorts of things, for instance, that last piece of data, is apparently an app or website
posting that's based on projections from the Transit app. But people out there in the world don't know that.

And I think that we need the board members to understand what that is. I also think if we pull apart-- the
data I'm seeing says that we're at 43% of our pre-pandemic service. And I'm guessing that was in at the
end of June. I'm guessing that if we pull that apart and we can be given data on what the light rail numbers
are like and what the bus numbers are like and what the commuter rail numbers are like, that we'll see that
number is really a reflection of our maintenance issues, which, we're, of course, not happy that those are
causing problems and bringing down our ridership.
But we've decided as a group that we need to move forward on that maintenance. So I think, again, that
we need to begin a list of data items that we would like to see. And I'll be talking with Ms. Johnson later this
afternoon. This is certainly a two way conversation. We need to hear what's coming.
But I think that it would be helpful-- I hope it would be helpful. I guess that's a question, Ms. Johnson. And
it certainly feels helpful to us to just lay out what we need to see. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. I saw First Vice Chair Catlin's
hand go up, and Performance Committee Chair. Please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Lynn. You stated it very well. I think it is incumbent upon us as board members
to make the ask, and not have to react when staff provides us stuff. That's not fair. So I agree. And we will
be asking our fellow directors to provide input as to what they would like to see. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair. I see General Manager and CEO Johnson's
hand. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you very much Chair Catlin, Second Vice
Chair Guissinger. Just for a point of clarity, as relates to the August 8 meeting, what was stated was that
we would bring a scorecard questions had been put forward to all of you, or requests relative to what it is
that we need to provide relative to the data. So I appreciate the solicitation that you guys will endeavor to
do with board members. So with that, I will yield the floor.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. I appreciate that. And Second Vice Chair Guissinger, is the best
thing to provide some feedback between now and the Performance Committee on that and engage in that
discussion there?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think so, unless you have a different suggestion. Maybe we'll-- Director Catlin and I
can work with Mr. Kroll to send something out. And we have a start of where people might look to come up
with the sorts of data. And I think we have some things in mind that we can get people started thinking on.
But since it is around an agency scorecard, we thought taking that to the Performance Committee made
the most sense.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you. I appreciate that. And given that I think we're down to the three
committee members here right now and no other directors, it would make sense for that to go out and be
sent to the full board and collect any feedback so that folks can come ready to the Performance Committee
to provide any of that direction.
Great. Any other discussion on that matter? OK, great. Are there any other matters to discuss? All right,
seeing none. Before we adjourn, I'll just note that the next executive committee meeting is scheduled for
Thursday, September 19. The committee's work plan calls for us to finalize our operating guideline

amendments related to the board to staff communications, continue our discussions related to the board's
next retreat, have an initial discussion on a potential bylaws' amendment to clarify the role of the executive
committee, and, as always, hear an update from our Government Relations Officer.
Seeing no further discussion, this meeting will be adjourned as of 1:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. Thank
you very much, everybody. Take good care.
JACK KROLL: Bye, everyone.

