1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, July 9, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Deadwyler called the meeting to order at 6:52 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
6:49 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:52 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Committee Co-Chair

Present
Present

6:49 PM
6:52 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:52 PM
6:51 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:50 PM
6:53 PM
6:51 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:50 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Committee Co-Chair

Present

6:51 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:51 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:51 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Absent
Present

6:51 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Austin Jenkins, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Barbara
McManus, Judy McMurphy, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Beverly Scott, Zamy Silva, Walt Stringer, John
Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Doug Grass, Stanley Gronek, Diana Horton, Douglas Howey, Johanna
Medina, Mei-Ling Rodriguez, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• 2013 Title VI Service Monitoring
It is recommended by the Civil Rights Committee that the Board of Directors
review and approve the 2013 Title VI Service Monitoring Results and the
future monitoring on an annual basis,
to comply with federal laws,
regulations and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion
to move this item to the full Board at the
July 16, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Michael Washington reviewed a PowerPoint presentation with
the Board that is available in the July 9, 2013 Civil Rights
Committee Agenda Packet.
General Manager Washington stated that as Michael
Washington explained, we are required to take a sample of
both minority and non-minority areas for a comparative
analysis. He said that there are some improvements needed
but we are making those improvements along the way.
Director Bagley asked Michael Washington to expound on
what he means by transit amenities. He also asked if the
definition of transit amenities includes sidewalks/access to the
bus stations which is the responsibility of the local
governments or municipalities. Michael Washington explained
that the Federal Transportation Administration (FTA) defines
transit amenities as (a) seating (i.e. benches, seats at

stops/stations), (b) bus and rail shelters and rail platform
canopies, (c) provision of information: i. printed signs, system
maps, route maps, and schedules and ii. Digital equipment
such as next vehicle arrival time signs, (d) escalators, (e)
elevators, and (f) waste receptacles. He stated that sidewalks
are not included for the reason Director Bagley stated; the FTA
acknowledges that transit agencies do not have control over
the sidewalks.
Director Folska thanked Michael Washington for his
presentation. She thought it was very informative. Director
Folska noted that people with disabilities are not one of the
categories of people listed as covered by Title VI. She asked if
this means we are not required to provide accessible signage
or sidewalks so that people can actually get on the buses.
She stated that this is an issue in Director Solano’s District
because there are not sidewalks so people in wheelchairs
cannot get to the buses. Michael Washington explained that
people with disabilities are not included under Title VI.
Director Folska asked for further information regarding the
discussion about installing a streetcar along 29th and Welton
as well as the Colfax corridor. She has heard discussion that
the people at 29th and Welton want to remove the existing
light rail through that area. She also asked how much RTD is
paying for these various studies. Director Folska expressed
that she feels very sad that RTD paid to put in a train and now
we are paying for a study to look at ripping it out. General
Manager Washington stated that both of those studies are
ongoing. Bill Van Meter explained that we have just selected a
consultant to evaluate the Welton corridor. One of the
alternatives that could be considered as part of the study is
removing the light rail to build a streetcar or it simply could be
an extension of the current rail. He stated that as it relates to
the Colfax studies staff will be bringing a full report to the
Board at an upcoming P&D meeting; there is one study run by
RTD to look at near-term improvements and one by the City
and County of Denver to evaluate long-term feasibility. Bill
Van Meter said he would get back to the Board with the cost
of the studies. General Manager Washington stated that there
are multiple scopes related to the Welton corridor study;
however, the bulk of the scope is to talk about how we get
operationally from the East line all the way Downtown. He
said that the streetcar is an ancillary part of the study.
General Manager Washington explained that there are different

factions in the community; some of the community wants the
connectivity spelled out in our original FasTracks plan while
others want a streetcar. Marla Lien explained that in the
original FasTracks plan an extension was approved. As part of
the Environmental Impact Study (EIS) we would need to
consider all mobility options. General Manager Washington
stated that any decision related to the Central corridor
extension would be subject to approval of the Board.
Director James commented that the goal of the sample and
comparison was to determine if there were disadvantages to
minorities in the system. He found no conclusion one way or
another so he was wondering if that meant that no
disadvantages were discovered. He asked if staff had the
maps from the presentation available for the entire district.
Director James also asked what the sample size was for the
comparison. Michael Washington explained that in reviewing
transit amenities staff did see communities that did not have
the appropriate amount; due to this finding staff is reviewing
our policy related to transit amenities. Bruce Abel explained
that staff uses these maps as part of the service planning
process but they do not maintain them for the entire district.
General Manager Washington said that staff would see what
they can do to get Director James a similar map for his
District. Michael Washington stated that staff sampled 30
census tracts out of the 200 we have in the District.
Director Lubow thought that within Title VI there was
protection against negative impacts to people of low income
but she did not see anything related to that in the
presentation. Michael Washington explained that the only
place we look at people of low income is during the
Environmental Justice process.
Director Solano noted that a lot of areas in Commerce City do
not have sidewalks. Due to this, the quarter mile buffer is not
met and Commerce City has a high Hispanic population.
Michael Washington explained that we are limited on
sidewalks because we do not have jurisdiction over them. He
said that with respect to route distribution, staff did not see
any issues and we are meeting our service coverage
standards. He offered to sit down with Director Solano to
discuss his other concerns one-on-one.

Director Walker asked if the highlights covered under service
monitoring are specific to minority areas or the system in
general. He also asked how we work with local jurisdictions
and constituents when it comes to building and maintaining
shelters. Michael Washington stated that the highlights were
specific to the sample in general. He explained that the issue
of shelters is a complicated issue. RTD works very closely
with the property owners, municipalities, etc. to determine
where we can place amenities. He noted that we have many
bus stops that back up to private property so it can be difficult
to place shelters at these locations. Director Walker
commented that we might be able to identify ways to bring
equality but there could be other obstacles preventing us from
doing so.
Director James asked if we have a policy for determining
where we put a shelter. Michael Washington stated that we
do have a policy but it is outdated. It starts with an evaluation
of boardings at a particular stop but it does not adequately
accommodate all scenarios so staff is in the process of
updating the policy.
Chair Anderson commented that many cities make money off
the bus shelters. Bruce Abel stated that this is one of the
issues that has truly grown over the years. In the past RTD,
was solely responsible for providing shelters, but as
municipalities have seen this as a source of revenue they have
started to build them. He explained that we have no control
over the placement of the ad shelters, regardless of what our
policy might be. Bruce Abel shared that he actually received a
call from someone inquiring as to why there was a shelter at a
location with no bus service. He also stated that we get calls
from municipalities asking us to remove our shelters so they
may install the revenue shelters. Bruce Abel said this is why
we need to update our policy; we need to make sure we are
responding to what the communities are doing so we may
better use our resources.
Committee Chair Deadwyler stated that the Board just
approved a Title VI report not too long ago. She asked if we
are submitting these reports in sections or if this will be part of
the entire report that is submitted. Michael Washington
explained that this is just an element of the larger report that
RTD will submit.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Committee Chair
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Tom Tobiassen
Committee Chair Deadwyler declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates
There were no updates.

D. Other Matters


General Manager Washington wanted to briefly discuss our field compliance
practices. He stated that there has been some discussion of former workers of
Rocky Mountain Reinforcement (RMR) coming to Board meetings. General
Manager Washington has asked Kenn Hardin and Rick Clarke to briefly review
what RTD looks at when we go out to the field to look at compliance. He
stated that staff will try to talk specifically about the RMR issues as much as
they can.
Kenn Hardin stated that the Civil Rights division is required to do oversight of
labor compliance of 3rd party contracts as part of Davis-Bacon. He explained
that our compliance officers go out on a weekly basis to each project and there
is always a bilingual Spanish speaking compliance officer available. The
compliance officers confidentially interview each worker, asking questions
related to wages, kind of work being performed, tools being used, fringe
benefits, etc. They also take photographs of what the workers are doing so
they can compare these with what is actually being reported. Kenn Hardin
shared that after they conduct the field interviews/research, the officers review
the certified payrolls submitted by all contractors on a weekly basis to verify
that what they were told in the interviews and observed in the field matches the
payroll and worker classification. He said that if there are any issues found a
report and letter are sent to the contractor explaining the issue and giving them
30 days to respond. As an example, this could be a misclassification of a
worker leading to an underpayment in which case the contractor would have 30
days to pay the employee restitution.
Kenn Hardin shared that to date his department has performed approximately
2,500 interviews out in the field. He explained that as it relates to RMR, our
compliance officers went into the field on the Eagle P3 project and witnessed
that there were employees of RMR who were performing iron work. When they
reviewed those payrolls it was discovered that they were being paid laborer
wages so that was a misclassification. He said that we notified RMR that those
employees should be paid iron worker wages in September of 2012. RMR had
paid restitution to the misclassified employees by October of 2012. Kenn
Hardin stated that in November of 2012 the Department of Labor went into the

field on the Eagle P3 site and found the same misclassification. RMR was
required to reclassify the workers and pay restitution and they did so. He said
that with regards to Denver Union Station, our compliance officer found the
same misclassification issue. RMR was notified of the misclassification and is in
the process of responding.
General Manager Washington informed the Board that staff has had
conversations with the prime contractors on each project. Since RMR is a
subcontractor to certain prime contractors RTD does not have a direct
relationship with them. Rick Clarke stated that staff emphasized to our prime
contractors the concerns that were raised and that we expect them to be
vigilant in their requirements with subcontractors. He said that his team works
very closely with Kenn Hardin’s group and there is at least one compliance
officer for every project. He ensured the Board that between Kenn’s group and
his team there are a lot of people out there enforcing compliance with the
contractors. He feels the great safety record is one of the successes of
FasTracks.
Director Daly asked if any of our WIN participants were employed my RMR.
Kenn Hardin said that to our knowledge none were.
Director Folska asked if RMR is a DBE or SBE firm and who the prime contractor
is for each project. She also wondered if it was a normal course of business to
misclassify employees as frequently as RMR seems to do. Director Folska noted
that the former RMR workers who spoke to the Board also complained about
things like no restrooms, no water, etc. and asked if staff looked into those
things too. Kenn Hardin stated that for Eagle P3 the prime contractor is Denver
Transit Partners and for Denver Union Station it is Kiewit. He stated that it
does happen on occasion with various contractors. Rick Clarke shared that it
happens to prime contractors as well. Kenn Hardin explained that it is the
nature of the construction business. On occasion workers will be out in the
field and a contractor will ask a laborer to take a measurement. The minute this
occurs the laborer is crossing trades and is now a carpenter. Kenn Hardin said
that the compliance officers do look at things like safety, water, restrooms, etc.
and there have not been any issues during the course of staff being out in the
field. Rick Clarke shared that he was just at DUS. He saw that there were
water coolers throughout the site and restrooms were available. He believes if
there was a big problem we would notice it.
Director Lubow stated that we have had the former RMR workers address the
Board at Board meetings on several occasions and they have also come to the
Citizens Advisory Committee meetings. She is concerned when people are
raising these questions that we are evaluating them. We may go out into the
field and not see X, Y and Z happening but do we speak with the people that
allege it happened in the past. Mei-Ling Rodriguez, compliance officer for DUS,
explained that when compliance officers go out into the field and conduct
interviews there is an area for comments where workers can file a complaint or
ask a question. They will make a note of any complaints and go back to the
site to verify the situation. She stated that in the case of the former RMR
workers, these workers have approached the compliance officers on the street
and they have explained the process to the workers. The compliance team has

offered to sit down with the workers to go over their pay stubs and discuss
their concerns. Mei-Ling Rodriguez stated that some former workers have done
this and some have not. The group that continues to contact the Board has
not. Kenn Hardin reiterated to the Board that on any one project we have
hundreds of companies in the field and we are hearing from a few workers with
a single company. He believes if this were an issue on a construction site we
would likely be hearing from more than just a few individuals from one
company. He asks the Board to consider this as they are listening to these
isolated issues.
Director Lubow asked if staff has gone back to ensure that RMR is not falling
back into the same old habits and misclassifying workers. Mei-Ling Rodriguez
stated that the compliance officers do that on a weekly basis. They have
received positive feedback from other workers.
Director Rivera-Malpiede asked how many individuals are hired by RMR. She
also wonders if the companies know the compliance officers are coming. MeiLing Rodriguez stated that she could not comment on employees of the
company as a whole but for DUS it was between 10-20 depending on the
week, season, etc. She said that all the visits are unannounced and all
interviews are confidential. Director Rivera-Malpiede asked if there is a
mechanism by which RMR is marked as being non-complaint in the past when
bidding for subcontracting jobs. General Manager Washington explained that
we cannot go out and place demerits on a sub-contractor when they have
responded to substantiated issues and other claims have not been
substantiated. Since the relationship exists between the prime contractor and
the subcontractor it is up to the prime if they want to continue to work with
that same sub.
Director Rivera-Malpiede asked General Manager Washington for some specific
talking points related to this issue. She is concerned because these gentlemen
have been to Directors’ homes and workplaces. She thanked staff for all of
their input.
Director Walker expressed his understanding of the difficulties that go into
compliance. There are some employees that just give the answers you are
hoping to get and others that are disgruntled. He also understands the
difficulties in misclassification. It can be as simple as someone being absent
who knows how to run the backhoe and asking if anyone present does.
Director Solano expressed a concern with workers being reclassified as iron
workers. Normally there is extensive training, apprenticeship, etc. before an
iron worker performs welding activities. He inquired if there is any testing
process that occurs before we reclassify the workers to make sure they are
journeyman level workers. Rick Clarke stated that any welder must be certified
and is classified separately from iron workers. He said the real complication is
that the Department of Labor does not interpret the rules the same from year to
year. In the past the definition of an iron worker has not included setting rebar
but now it does. Zamy Silva explained that it is the responsibility of the
subcontractors to determine that all their workers are licensed.

Director Folska thinks that Director Rivera-Malpiede has some important ideas,
not so much in demerits but in reviewing the Certificate of Good Standing with
the Secretary of State, getting the Better Business Bureau rating for each
company, etc. She hopes we can take a deeper look at our policies to
determine if anything further can be incorporated.
General Manager Washington expressed that he knows how the Board feels.
Directors have had people come to their houses, places of work, Board
meetings, etc. and everyone wants to fix this. He asked the Board to keep in
mind that RTD staff are the ones that found the issue in the first place and RMR
corrected it. He said that staff will continue to monitor all the contractors and
will keep the Board posted.


Director Bagley had several questions that he did not get a chance to ask during
other committee meetings. He wanted to bring them up so staff has the
opportunity to respond.
1) He noted a mention of CU Leeds making an update to the Sales and Use Tax
forecasts in June. He asked if CU Leeds could make a presentation to the
Board to explain why they made the changes.
2) Director Bagley noted the three major successes that came out of the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force (sales tax parity, auditing, and parking legislation).
He feels it is valuable to re-energize that Task Force and begin to have
additional meetings.
3) Director Bagley asked for an update on Alameda Station.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 13, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Deadwyler adjourned the meeting at 8:12 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

