Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, October 18, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 6:45 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present

Arrived
6:45 PM
5:00 PM
6:46 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent

6:50 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Absent
Present

Bill James

Director, District A

Remote

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Committee Vice-Chair
Committee Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Present

6:40 PM
6:40 PM
6:45 PM
6:50 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:45 PM
6:40 PM

6:45 PM

Directors Folska, Francone and Lasater were absent. Director James participated via
phone. Directors Anderson, Archuleta, Deadwyler and Solano left the meeting early
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Gina
Callahan, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps,
Nate Currey, Joey Davidson, John Elias, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, John Gonzales, Brian Iacono, Russ Larson, Shontel Lewis,
Inez Lucero, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Barbara McManus,
Mike Meader, Ravi Palakurthy, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer
Ross-Amato, Jannette Scarpino, Karl Shoemaker, Henry
Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, F. Brian Thye, Monika
Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington

Others Present:

Homer Anderson, Dr. William Gross, Anne Herzenberg, Brian
Lewandowski, Robert McNown, Marolyn Rittenhouse, Angie RivieraMalpiede, John Thompson

B. Recommended Actions

• Transfer FasTracks Sales and Use Tax Revenues in Excess of Forecasted
Sales and Use Tax Revenues to FasTracks Internal Savings Account
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors approve transferring FasTracks sales and
use tax revenues (.4%) from unrestricted fund balance to the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account (FISA) on an annual basis when actual sales and
use tax revenues (.4%) collected for the calendar year exceed the
forecasted sales and use tax revenues (.4%) projected in the adopted
budget each year. The actual sales and use tax revenues will be
determined based on the audited financial statements.
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 25, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, remarked that during
the process of adopting the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation
(APE) there were several comments about the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account (FISA). She stated that one of the
recommendations she received was to transfer additional
funds into the FISA to help build it up quicker. She
commented that overall, there would not be a significant
impact in a given year.

Director Anderson asked if service was going to be cut on
FasTracks corridors, could the FISA funds be used to cover
the costs that were needed.
Heather Copp stated that FISA funds can only be used for
construction, operations and maintenance of a FasTracks
project. She stated the answer to Director Anderson’s
questions is yes, but the Board would have to approve the
expenditure of the funds.
General Manager Genova added that it would be challenging to
take funds from FISA and apply them to an already built and
operating corridor. He stated there would be a lot of
pushback, as FISA is for unfunded corridors.
Heather Copp remarked that the intent of this action item is to
build up the FISA account for the unfunded corridors.
Director Anderson asked staff to outline and define the
unfunded corridors. She stated that the Board needs to be
sure what the funds will be used for.
Director Lubow commented that this action item supports the
original intent of the FISA, which is to help the unfunded
corridors get funding. She added that the stakeholders want
to feel that their corridors are being addressed.
Director Bagley agreed with Director Anderson and stated it is
important to detail which corridors are considered unfunded.
He said there is a continued conversation and discussion about
stakeholders, but he was never approached and he has an
unfunded corridor. He added that there are four different
unfunded corridor extensions that are all important. He stated
that he is bothered by the fact that the North West corridor is
getting all of the attention. He remarked that all of the
corridors are important, but this action item is merely symbolic
as there will not be a lot of money added to this account at
one time. He further stressed that the funds in this account
could be moved out at any time by a future Board.
Director Deadwyler said she was on the Board when the FISA
was approved. She noted this needs to be revisited and reprioritized as any extra dime that goes into the account seems
to be going to the North West rail line. She commented that

the Board should revisit and prioritize this, but she will not be
supporting this as it is.
Director Solano noted some of the corridors are receiving
federal grants while others are not. He said there is a financial
inequality between the corridors.
Director Sisk asked if it would be an appropriate point of order
to amend the resolution. He said by specifying the unfunded
corridors, it would address the concerns from the other
Directors.
Director Hoy stated he is always amazed by the North vs.
South exchange. He said that the discussion on the table is
where extra funds might go, and if FISA is going to catch that
money. He stated that the outflow of FISA funds will be no
different than it is today. He added that the only reason the
Southeast Rail extension is being done is because RTD got a
good deal. The real question the Board needs to ask is if FISA
should catch the surplus funds, and not which corridor the
money will be applied to.
Director James said whatever the outcome is for this
resolution, he appreciates the efforts by staff to appease our
stakeholders and address their concerns.
Director Anderson commented that FasTracks money is
already earmarked for FasTracks and she would like to know
where those funds go.
Director Bagley stated there are other stakeholders, but this
action item was generated by conversations on the north side
of town. He said this needs to be holistic and other
stakeholders need to be recognized.
Committee Chair Menten noted the FasTracks bond measure
included language for bus service.
Heather Copp stated that bus service is already built into the
funding and financial model.
Director Deadwyler asked about the US36 BRT project and
asked what remained for that project.
Heather Copp commented that the circulator and Ranch Road
station were outstanding.

Director Deadwyler inquired if there were to be another BRT
project, where would those funds come from.
General Manager Genova stated that if there was a second
BRT project, it would need to be funded by the Base System.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 3]
Judy Lubow, Committee Vice-Chair
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
Archuleta, Bagley, Hoy, James, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone, Gary Lasater
Bill James

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Sales and Use Tax Forecast Update
Heather Copp introduced Brian Lewandowski and Robert McNown from the
University of Colorado’s Leeds School of Business (CU Leeds) and stated
that they would walk the Board through the Sales and Use Tax Forecast
Update.
Brian Lewandowski, Research Associate, indicated that tonight’s
presentation would discuss the economy how CU Leeds developed the
model to the current forecast. He stated that Colorado is still in the top ten
for employment growth, and while energy is a large component of the
state’s economy, Colorado is well diversified. He added that all industries
are adding jobs, except for the mining and oil and gas sectors. Construction
is the fastest growing industry within the state, but there is a shortage of
workers. Growth continues to be slow and steady and balance sheets
continue to get stronger.
Robert McNown, Professor, remarked that the key variables between the
national economy and the local economy is employment. He added that the
Colorado economy has performed stronger than the national average both in
the long run, and in the recent economic recovery. He stated looking ahead,
forecasters will encounter uncertainty with Federal Policy, Europe, the
Middle East, Emerging Markets, commodity prices and the upcoming
election. He remarked that there will be frequent revisions of forecasts to
reflect new information as it is available. He stated in summary, factors
impacting the 2016-2017 revenues is:








Growing but slowing Colorado employment, sales and personal
income expectations
Marijuana Revenue
Exports
Energy
Housing
Sales tax remittances from online vendors

Director Bagley thanked CU Leeds for the work they have done and for their
presentation tonight.
Chair Tobiassen said the forecast seems optimistic and steady.

• August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, stated Sales and Use Taxes had a better month
in August. He added that RTD is $4 million below budget, but there was
$900,000 collected from internet taxes so there is new money coming in.
He commented that Ridership is down, but staff is seeing a bit of recovery.
Fare revenue was good in August, and it should be up again in September.
Director Lubow asked how RTD was able to benefit from the increase in
internet sales. Doug MacLeod explained that previously, an online retailer
only had to pay taxes if they were physically located within the district. He
noted in February of 2016, Amazon opened a distribution facility in the
District which allowed RTD to collect tax from the retailer. He noted that it
is a small piece, but it is tax that RTD was not collecting previously.
Director Bagley remarked that things are moving in the right direction since
August was good, and September will be better.

• SmartCard Project Update
Heather Copp recapped the last SmartCard Project Update, where she had
informed the Board that staff sent Xerox a Notice to Cure regarding the
Payment Card Industry (PCI) compliance. She stated that Xerox replied and
staff was happy with the majority of the responses. She noted that there
are a few outstanding items, but staff has met with Xerox’s VP of
Transportation and she has had weekly meetings with Xerox to discuss
outstanding issues. She added that staff hopes to have an update next
week on the status of the remaining concerns and she is hopeful that there
will be actions shortly.
General Manager Genova added that a Cure Notice is an incredibly big step
with any vendor as it is for all intents and purposes, a default notice.
Heather Copp commented that staff has been in conversations with King
Soopers and our equipment is currently in their test store. She stated that

King Soopers has had some concerns with the complexity of the equipment,
and staff is working with them to resolve any issues. She added that in the
meantime, staff is working with Safeway to get two stores set up with the
same test equipment.
Director Hoy indicated he was curious about the Notice to Cure, and what
position we are in now because of it.
Heather Copp stated staff now has a direct line to Xerox’s upper level
management, and hopefully, this will help us get the results we need. She
added that Xerox’s competitors have similar issues, so it would be
problematic to move to a new vendor at this time.
General Manager Genova remarked that he agrees with Heather’s
assessment. He noted that Xerox is concerned with their reputation and
they have involved their upper level executives with our project.
Director Lubow said there should be a drop dead date for the SmartCards to
prevent the project from continually progress with no real finalization.

• Fiscal Sustainability Update
Heather Copp noted that the Fiscal Sustainability Update was included in the
October 28, 2016 Financial Administration and Audit Packet and asked if
the Board had any questions.
Director James asked for a status update on parking.
General Manager Genova remarked that staff would be bringing forth an
analysis of a universal parking program for review at next month’s Financial
Administration and Audit Committee. He stated that the premise is to
provide RTD with a parking philosophy and policy.

• 2017 Requested Budget Update
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis, stated
that long-term fiscal stability is key if RTD is to deliver the services and
programs of the mission statement in a cost-effective manner. She added
that RTD must maintain debt service coverage and remain within Taxpayer
Bill of Rights (TABOR) debt limits. She remarked that there will be no
service reductions necessary to balance the budget in 2017, and Operating
expenses will be controlled within Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) control totals.
She reiterated that only the minimum and must have Capital and expense
projects will be completed, a new unrestricted operating reserve will be
established for the first time, and no new debt will be issued.
Director Bagley mentioned that he spoke to Gary Thomas, President and
Executive Director of Dallas Area Rapid Transit (DART). He indicated that

DART assessed their revenue forecast lower than what was projected and in
doing so, they were in better financial shape. He stated that RTD’s sales
and use tax was at 5.6% and asked if staff would be more comfortable if
that amount was adjusted lower.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 15, 2016
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session



CRS 24-6-402(4)(b): Conferences with an attorney for the public entity for the
purposes of receiving legal advice on specific legal questions – Discussions of
position relative to the SumTotal Contract
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purposes of discussing CRS
24-6-402(4)(b): Conferences with an attorney for the
public entity for the purposes of receiving legal advice
on specific legal questions – Discussions of position
relative to the SumTotal Contract.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED. The Board moved into Executive
Session at 8:45 p.m.

G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting directly after the Executive Session
at 9:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

